


---PAGE_1---
OhioM
HAS Office of Community Services 
Bureau of Recovery Support 
Rec
overy Month Events – Expression of Interest (EOI) 
EOI #83: M
HA-FY26 – Recovery Month Events EOI 
F
unding Period: 7/25/2025 – 09/29/2025 
Request for Applications Posting Date: 07/11/2025 
Request for Applications Due Date: 07/25/2025, by 3 p.m. EDT 
Mike DeWine, Governor 
Leann Cornyn, Director 
Jim Tressel, Lt. Governor 


---PAGE_2---
 
 
OhioMHAS Request for Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
Statement of Purpose  
 
OhioMHAS utilizes the EOI to conduct market research to identify organizations interested in 
participating in a proposed opportunity. The EOI is used as a screening and shortlisting tool to 
gauge interest in a proposed opportunity based upon the proposed requirements. The expressions 
of interest received will help OhioMHAS decide whether or not to proceed with a specific 
opportunity based upon the level of interest from eligible organizations.  
The Ohio Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (OhioMHAS) invites potential 
eligible organizations to submit an expression of interest based upon the outlined requirements. 
Unless indicated below, no award or funding will be issued as a result of this EOI.  
 
Recovery Events Funding Request for Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
Request for Expression of Interest Issued: Friday July 11
th
 2025 
To submit your expression of interest please complete all questions on the Microsoft form at 
https://forms.office.com/g/2YnKfqHta7
  by July 25th at 3:00 p.m. 
 
Proposed Opportunity  
 
OhioMHAS is requesting expressions of interest from potential prevention, treatment, and/or 
recovery supports providers; community coalitions; recovery community organizations; peer 
run organizations; housing providers; faith-based organizations; schools; and other non-profit 
community organizations. Organizations must have a federal tax identification number 
(FTID). Recovery Events funding is used to host activities, events, or services to raise 
awareness about and celebrate recovery from substance use, and/or co-occurring disorders 
(mental health and substance use) through September 2025. This funding opportunity is 
supported by State Opioid and Stimulant Response (SOS) funds and must be spent by 
September 29, 2025.    
  
Activities & Funding Amount:  
 
Each eligible organization may request up to $10,000 to plan and implement activities and 
event(s) focused on any or all the following:  
 
Reducing opioid use disorder, stimulant use disorder, and/or opioid-related overdoses; 
increasing access to addiction treatment; preventing youth alcohol and drug use; 
increasing recovery supports; and providing educational opportunities and training to 
promote harm reduction practices.  The population of focus for this initiative includes 
transitional aged youth and young adults (ages 16-25), adults, families, and 
communities impacted by opioid use disorder, stimulant use disorder, and concurrent 
behavioral health conditions. 
  


---PAGE_3---
 
The event (s) awarded under this funding opportunity will be viewed as one-time only 
and should not support ongoing services/supports/salaries.  
 
Funding will be provided to organizations on a first-come, first-served basis. 
 
This opportunity will provide up to $10,000 for the following activities: 
• Personnel salaries and benefits to prepare and participate in eligible event activities  
• Training and material costs (e.g., Naloxone purchase and distribution, fentanyl test strips, 
etc.)  
• Twelve Steps materials (e.g., Narcotics Anonymous and Alcoholics Anonymous books 
that remain with organization)  
• Educational materials  
• Mileage/Travel  
• Peer recovery efforts that engage with culturally diverse and unserved populations  
• Recovery meetings (all types) with the purpose of raising awareness and celebrating 
recovery    
• Coordination and education on physical health for testing/treatment of HIV/AIDS HCV, 
STDs, and COVID-19  
• Consultants/contracts for the event (e.g., subject matter experts who provide evidenced-
based training)    
• Information and referral  
• Social support and social inclusion activities  
• Peer-led educational recovery workshops (e.g., recovery 101, wellness training, shared 
decision- making, peer provided life skills, stress management, stigma reduction, 
leadership development, rights protection)  
• Culturally based recovery practices (e.g., Learning Circles, Traditional Healing 
ceremonies, etc.)  
• Printing and copying costs (e.g., educational campaigns, strategic messaging, resource 
cards, educational materials)  
• Recovery-friendly workplace and employment support (e.g., outreach to employers to 
hire individuals in recovery)  
• Workforce development/training costs of evidence-based/informed prevention, treatment, 
and recovery support interventions that are not covered by another funding source  
• Registration fees    
• Rent to host events  
• Transportation assistance (e.g., bus passes, taxi fare, etc.)  
• Funding activities only available to participants enrolled in treatment: 
o Hygiene kits including deodorant/antiperspirant, soap, and shampoo  
o Dental kits including, toothbrush, toothpaste, dental floss, non-alcohol containing 
mouth wash  
 
 
 
Unallowable Expenses:  


---PAGE_4---
 
• Food  
• Entertainment expenses (e.g., musicians, dunk tanks, giveaways, etc.) 
• This is not an exhaustive list. Please see the full list of unallowable expenses for SOS 
funding at SOS 3.0 Allowable and Unallowable Expenses
. 
 
 
Mandatory Minimum Requirements 
 
To qualify for the proposed opportunity, the organizations intending to participate must meet the 
following requirements: 
• An organization at the federal tax identification (FTID) number level, independent of 
number of sites, is eligible to submit a single request for up to $10,000
.  
• Organization must be 501(c)(3) non-profit.  
• Organizations will be able to access the full amount of awarded funds once disbursement 
requirements are met. Awarded funds will be disbursed, via pass through agent, OhioPro.  
• All awards must be fully expended by September 29, 2025.  
• Organizations are required to report to OhioMHAS how funds were utilized using the 
OhioMHAS outcomes survey. OhioMHAS will provide the survey link and the SOS 
questionnaire (if applicable) for required reporting. Completed surveys are due no later 
than November 7, 2025. The survey link will be provided upon awarding of funds.  
 
 
Questions, Technical Assistance, and Updates 
 
• Please email any questions regarding this opportunity to peerservices@mha.ohio.gov
 
 
• A technical assistance call will be held via Microsoft Teams on Friday July 18
th
 at 
1:00pm. Links and phone numbers to join are below:  
 
Join the meeting now  
Meeting ID: 290 466 062 406 3  
Passcode: HD6CG62x  
 
Dial in by phone  
+1 614-721-2972,,181293154#
 United States, Columbus  
Find a local number  
Phone conference ID: 181 293 154#  
Join on a video conferencing device  
Tenant key: 682042763@t.plcm.vc  
Video ID: 118 454 229 5  
More info
  
 
 
To Apply 


---PAGE_5---
 
 
Please complete and submit the “Request for Funding Form” using the following link:   
https://forms.office.com/g/2YnKfqHta7 