


---PAGE_1---
1 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
Delaware Health Fund – FY 2028 Health Programs and Services 
ISSUED BY 
DIVISION OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
CONTRACT NUMBER HSS 28 001 
 
Contents: 
 
I. Overview 
II. Scope of Services 
III.   Required Information 
IV. Professional Services RFP Administrative Information 
V. Contract Terms and Conditions 
VI. RFP Miscellaneous Information 
VII. Attachments 
Appendix A – Minimum Mandatory Submission Requirements 
Appendix B – Scope of Work and Tenhnical Requirements 
Appendix C – Vendor Forms 
o    Attachment 2 - Vendor Information Form 
o    Attachment 3 - Non-Collusion Statement 
o    Attachment 4 - Exception Form 
o    Attachment 5 - Confidentiality Form 
o    Attachment 6 - Business References 
o Attachment 7 - Subcontractor Form – if applicable 
Appendix D – Templates/Sample Agreements 
o    Professional Services Agreement 
o    Business Associate Agreement 
o    DTI Terms & Conditions 
Appendix E – Workplan Template 
Appendix F – Project Cost Template 
 
** Ctrl + Click on the headings above will take you directly to the section. 


---PAGE_2---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 2 
I.   Overview 
 
The State of Delaware Department of Health and Social Services seeks professional services 
to  Delaware Health Fund – Health Programs and Services. This request for proposals (“RFP”) 
is issued pursuant to 29 Del. C. §§ 6981 and 6982. 
 
  
The proposed schedule of events subject to the RFP is outlined below: 
 
Public Notice  Date: August 10, 2026 
 
Deadline for Questions  
Date: August 28, 2026 at 3:00 PM EST 
 
Pre-Bid Meeting - Mandatory/Non-Mandatory   
NONE 
 
Response to Questions Posted by:  
Date: September 3, 2026  
 
Deadline for Receipt of Proposals  
Date: September 15, 2026 at 1:00 PM EDT 
 
Evaluation of Proposals  
Date: September 15 – October 9, 2026 
 
Draft Recommended List Posted Publicly:   
Date: October 15, 2026 
 
Health Fund Advisory Committee Public Meeting   
Date: November 6, 2026 
 
Final Recommended Award List Transmitted:   
Date: November 13, 2026 
 
General Assembly — FY 2028 Appropriations Act   
Date: Spring 2027 
 
        Estimated Project Start Date       D
ate: July 1, 2027 
 
Each  proposal  must  be  accompanied  by  a  transmittal  letter  which  briefly  summarizes  the  
proposing firm’s interest in providing the required professional services.  The transmittal letter 
must also clearly state and justify any exceptions to the requirements of the RFP which the 
applicant  may  have  taken  in  presenting  the  proposal.  (Applicant  exceptions  must  also  be  
recorded on Attachment 4).   
 
Furthermore, the transmittal letter must attest to the fact, at a minimum, that the Vendor shall 
not store or transfer non-public State of Delaware data outside of the United States.   
 
For  technology  related  solicitations,  Vendors  may  refer  to  the  Delaware  Department  of  
Technology and Information identified terms and conditions included in this solicitation.   
 
The  State  of  Delaware  reserves  the  right  to  deny  any  and  all  exceptions  taken  to  the  RFP  
requirements. 
 
 


---PAGE_3---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 3 
A pre-bid meeting has NOT been scheduled for this Request for Proposal.  
 
Questions may be submitted no later than August 28, 2026 @ 3:00 PM EST. 
   
All inquiries must be submitted in the Q/A section of the project listing in the Euna 
Procurement (formerly Bonfire) Portal (https://dhss.bonfirehub.com).   
  
The Department’s response to questions will be posted, according to the procurement 
schedule, under the project listing in Euna Procurement (formerly Bonfire) and to the State 
of Delaware Bid Solicitation Directory Website: http://www.bids.delaware.gov/ by 
September 3, 2026.  
II.    Scope of Services 
The mission of the Division of Public Health is to protect and enhance the health of the people 
of Delaware.  The Division accomplishes its mission by: 
 
●    working together with others; 
●    addressing issues that affect the health of Delawareans; 
●    keeping track of the State’s health; 
●    promoting positive lifestyles; 
●    responding to critical health issues and disasters; 
●    promoting the availability of health services. 
 
The accomplishment of this mission will facilitate the Division in realizing its vision of 
creating an environment in which people in Delaware can reach their full potential for a healthy 
life. 
 
The Delaware Health Fund was created by the Delaware Health Act of 1999 (16 Del. C. § 137) 
and is funded principally by the State’s annual payments under the Tobacco Master Settlement 
Agreement, together with interest earnings and the Fund’s reserve.  Since its creation, the Fund 
has supported programs expanding access to care, preventing and treating cancer, preventing 
and reducing tobacco use, and addressing other health needs of Delawareans, upon the annual 
recommendations of the Delaware Health Fund Advisory Committee and appropriation by the 
General Assembly. 
 
On June 30, 2026, Senate Bill 296 with Senate Amendment 1 was signed into law as 85 Del. 
Laws, c. 336, adding 16 Del. C. § 137(i).  The new subsection directs the Department of Health 
and Social Services, in consultation with the Division of Public Health, to administer a 
competitive grant program through which private organizations propose programs and services 
consistent with the purposes of § 137(d).  This Request for Proposals is issued pursuant to that 
authority and solicits proposals for programs and services to be funded from the Delaware 
Health Fund in Fiscal Year 2028 (July 1, 2027 – June 30, 2028). 
 
Eligibility:  This RFP is open to private organizations.  State-operated programs do not 
respond to this RFP; funding for state-operated programs is designated by the Department 
through a separate internal process pursuant to 16 Del. C. § 137(i)(1).  State-operated 
programs seeking Fiscal Year 2028 funding should submit the State-Operated Program 
Designation Request form, available from the contact person listed above. 


---PAGE_4---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 4 
 
Funding priorities:  Consistent with the General Assembly’s operating-budget epilogue (FY 
2027 Budget Act, Senate Bill 335, § 33), the recommended award list shall prioritize tobacco 
control, cessation, and cancer prevention and treatment programs, and no less than 45% of 
funding received from the Master Settlement Agreement each fiscal year shall be recommended 
for those programs.  Accordingly, proposals with direct ties to tobacco prevention and cessation 
and to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment receive funding priority, and the Division 
balances awards across funding categories to satisfy this directive.  Proposals serving the other 
purposes in § 137(d) remain eligible and are encouraged. 
 
Notice of Award: Please read carefully.  Selection under this RFP results in placement on the 
Division’s draft recommended award list, which will be posted publicly no later than October 15, 
2026, reviewed by the Health Fund Advisory Committee at a public meeting with public 
testimony no later than November 7, 2026, and transmitted as a final recommended award list 
to the Governor, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Controller General, 
and the members of the Joint Finance Committee no later than November 15, 2026.  Funding is 
contingent upon appropriation by the General Assembly in the Fiscal Year 2028 appropriations 
act, and recommended awards are subject to amendment by the Joint Finance Committee 
through the budget process.  No contract or grant agreement will be executed, and no funds will 
be paid, unless and until such appropriation is enacted; contracts for funded awards are 
anticipated to begin July 1, 2028.  Recommended amounts may differ from requested amounts, 
and final appropriated amounts may differ from recommended amounts. 
 
 
 B.  Project Goals 
 
The Division of Public Health seeks proposals from private organizations for programs and 
services that advance the purposes of the Delaware Health Fund.  The goals of this solicitation 
are to fund programs and services for Delaware citizens that: 
 
●    advance one or more of the statutory purposes in 16 Del. C. § 137(d), with funding 
priority for programs directly tied to tobacco prevention and cessation and to cancer 
prevention, detection, and treatment; 
●    produce specific, measurable, verifiable health outcomes-not participation counts alone -
that will be incorporated into award agreements and publicly assessed; 
●    demonstrate sound organizational capacity, reasonable budgets, and realistic 
sustainability plans in light of annually declining Master Settlement Agreement revenue; 
and 
●    coordinate with, rather than duplicate, existing services. 
 
The full text of the § 137(d) allowable uses is provided as an attachment to this RFP. 
 
Please refer to Appendix B -for details/requirements for the Scope of Service.  
 
III.   Required Information 
The following information shall be provided in each proposal in the order listed below.  Failure 
to  respond  to  any  request  for  information  within  this  proposal  may  result  in  rejection  of  the  
proposal at the sole discretion of the State. 


---PAGE_5---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 5 
 
A.  Minimum Requirements 
1. Provide Delaware license(s) and/or certification(s) necessary to perform services as 
identified in the scope of work. 
 
Prior to the execution of an award document, the successful Vendor shall either furnish 
the Agency with proof of State of Delaware Business Licensure or initiate the process 
of application where required. 
 
2. Vendor shall provide responses to the Request for Proposal (RFP) scope of work and 
clearly  identify  capabilities  as  presented  in  the  General  Evaluation  Requirements  
below. 
 
3. Complete all appropriate attachments and forms as identified within the RFP. 
 
4. Proof of insurance and amount of insurance shall be furnished to the Agency prior to 
the  start  of  the  contract  period  and  shall  be  no  less  than  as  identified  in  the  bid  
solicitation, Section V, Item G, subsection 8 (Insurance). 
 
 
B.  General Evaluation Requirements  
1.   Statement of Need (§ II.A of proposal)-Delaware-specific evidence of the health need 
and the service gap the program fills; for returning organizations, including prior-year 
results. 
2.   Alignment  with  Health  Fund  Priorities  (§  II.B)-fit  with  the  purposes  in  16  Del.  C.  §  
137(d), with the strongest weight for direct ties to tobacco prevention and cessation 
and to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. 
3.   Program  Design  and  Feasibility  (§  II.C)-goals,  activities,  timeline,  staffing,  and  
geographic reach that are specific, coherent, and achievable within the contract year. 
4.   Measurable Outcomes and Evaluation Plan (§ II.D)-specific, verifiable objectives with 
indicators,  targets,  and  data  sources,  suitable  for  incorporation  into  the  award  
agreement. 
5.   Organizational   Capacity   &   Past   Performance   (§   II.E)-governance,   financial   
management, audit history, and experience operating programs of similar scope. 
6.   Budget  Reasonableness  and  Sustainability  (§  II.F)=  justified  costs  proportionate  to  
reach,  documented  other  funding,  and  a  realistic  plan  given  declining  Master  
Settlement Agreement revenue. 
 
IV. Professional Services RFP Administrative Information 
A.  RFP Issuance 
1.   Public Notice 
Public notice has been provided in accordance with 29 Del. C. § 6981. 
 
2.   Obtaining Copies of the RFP 
This RFP is available in electronic form through the State of Delaware Procurement 
website  at  https://mmp.delaware.gov/Bids/  and  on  Euna  Procurement  (formerly  
Bonfire) at   https://dhss.bonfirehub.com.  
 
Paper copies of this RFP will not be available. 


---PAGE_6---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 6 
 
 
3.   Assistance to Vendors with Disability 
Vendors  with  a  disability  may  receive  accommodation  regarding  the  means  of  
communicating  this  RFP  or  participating  in  the  procurement  process.    For  more  
information, contact the Designated Contact no later than ten days prior to the deadline 
for receipt of proposals. 
 
4.   RFP Designated Contact 
All  requests,  questions,  or  other  communications  about  this  RFP  shall  be  made  
through Euna Procurement (formerly Bonfire) at https://dhss.bonfirehub.com.   
 
Communications  made  to  other  State  of  Delaware  personnel  or  attempting  to  ask  
questions by phone or in person will not be allowed or recognized as valid and may 
disqualify the vendor.   
 
Vendors  should  rely  only  on  written  statements  issued  by  the  RFP  designated  
Contracts, Management and Procurement contact. 
 
The RFP designated contact is:   
 
Su Webb-Buie 
Management Analyst III 
Su.webb@delaware.gov 
 
Contracts, Management and Procurement Contact:  
 
Eddie Mui 
Management Analyst III 
DHSS_DMS_dmsprocure@delaware.gov 
 
5.   Consultants and Legal Counsel 
The State of Delaware may retain consultants or legal counsel to assist in the review 
and evaluation of this RFP and the vendors’ responses.  Bidders shall not contact the 
State’s consultant or legal counsel on any matter related to the RFP. 
 
6.   Contact with State Employees 
Direct  contact  with  State  of  Delaware  employees  other  than  the  State  of  Delaware  
Designated Contact regarding this RFP is expressly prohibited without prior consent.  
Vendors  directly  contacting  State  of  Delaware  employees  risk  elimination  of  their  
proposal from further consideration.  Exceptions exist only for organizations currently 
doing  business  in  the  State  who  require  contact  in  the  normal  course  of  doing  that  
business. 
 
  
 
7.   Organizations Ineligible to Bid 
Any  individual,  business,  organization,  corporation,  consortium,  partnership,  joint  
venture, or any other entity including subcontractors currently debarred or suspended 
is ineligible to bid.  Any entity ineligible to conduct business in the State of Delaware 
for any reason is ineligible to respond to the RFP. 


---PAGE_7---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 7 
 
8.   Exclusions 
The Proposal Evaluation Team reserves the right to refuse to consider any proposal 
from a vendor who: 
a. Has  been  convicted  for  commission  of  a  criminal  offense  as  an  incident  to  
obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract, or in 
the performance of the contract or subcontract: 
b. Has  been  convicted  under  State  or  Federal  statutes  of  embezzlement,  theft,  
forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property, or 
other  offense  indicating  a  lack  of  business  integrity  or  business  honesty  that  
currently and seriously affects responsibility as a State contractor: 
c. Has been convicted or has had a civil judgment entered for a violation under State 
or Federal antitrust statutes: 
d. Has violated contract provisions such as: 
1)   Known   failure   without   good   cause   to   perform   in   accordance   with   the   
specifications or within the time limit provided in the contract; or 
2)   Failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance in accordance with terms of 
one or more contracts; 
e. Has violated ethical standards set out in law or regulation; and 
f. Any  other  cause  listed  in  regulations  of  the  State  of  Delaware  determined  to  be  
serious and compelling as to affect responsibility as a State contractor, including 
suspension or debarment by another governmental entity for a cause listed in the 
regulations. 
 
B.  RFP Submissions 
1.   Acknowledgement of Understanding of Terms 
By submitting a bid, each vendor shall be deemed to acknowledge that it has carefully 
read all sections of this RFP, including all forms, schedules and exhibits hereto, and 
has fully informed itself as to all existing conditions and limitations. 
 
2.   Proposals 
To be considered, all proposals must be submitted in through Euna Procurement 
(formerly Bonfire) at    https://dhss.bonfirehub.com/ and respond to the items outlined 
in this RFP.   
 
The State reserves the right to reject any non-responsive or non-conforming 
proposals.    
 
Responses  submitted  by  hard  copy,  mail,  facsimile,  or  e-mail  will  not  be  
accepted. 
 
 
All proposals must be submitted prior to 1:00 PM EDT on September 15, 2026. 
 
 
PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
a.   Proposals must be received before the Proposal Due Date and Time, as 
identified in the Procurement Schedule for this RFP.  
Responses received after the Proposal Due Date and Time will not be accepted.  


---PAGE_8---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 8 
b.   Upload your submission at: https://dhss.bonfirehub.com/   
 
 
Important Notes:  
•   Logging in and/or uploading the file(s) does not mean the response is 
submitted. Users must successfully upload all the file(s) and MUST click the 
submit button before the proposal due date and time.  
•   Users will receive an email confirmation receipt with a unique confirmation 
number once the submission has been finalized. This will confirm that the 
proposal has been submitted successfully.  
•   Each submitted item of Requested Information will only become visible to 
DHSS after the proposal due date and time.  
•   If the file is mandatory, you will not be able to complete your submission until 
the requirement is met.  
•   Uploading large documents may take significant time depending on the size of 
the file(s) and your Internet connection speed. The maximum upload file size 
is 1000 MB.  
•   Minimum system requirements: Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, or Mozilla 
Firefox. Java Script must be enabled.  
• Notarizations are no longer required.   
 
Need Help? Please contact Euna Procurement (formerly Bonfire) directly at Bonfire 
Hub, email to support.bonfire@eunasolutions.com, or call 1- 844- 226- EUNA (3862) 
press 1 for customer support/technical questions or issues related to your 
submission. You can also visit their help forum at 
https://customer.eunasolutions.com/public/s/contactsupport. 
 
Any  proposal  submitted  after  the  Deadline  for  Receipt  of  Proposals  date  will  not  be  
accepted.   The contents of any proposal shall not be disclosed as to be made available 
to competing entities during the negotiation process. 
 
Upon receipt of vendor proposals, each vendor shall be presumed to be thoroughly 
familiar with all specifications and requirements of this RFP.  The failure or omission 
to examine any form, instrument or document shall in no way relieve vendors from any 
obligation in respect to this RFP. 
 
3.   Proposal Modifications 
Any changes, amendments or modifications to a proposal must be submitted 
through 
Euna  Procurement  (formerly  Bonfire) prior  to the proposal  due  date.  Changes, 
amendments, or modifications to proposals shall not be accepted or considered after 
the hour and date specified as the deadline for submission of proposals. 
 
4.   Proposal Costs and Expenses 
The State of Delaware will not pay any costs incurred by any Vendor associated with 
any aspect of responding to this solicitation, including proposal preparation, printing or 
delivery,  attendance  at  vendor’s  conference,  system  demonstrations  or  negotiation 
process. 
 
 


---PAGE_9---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 9 
5.   Proposal Expiration Date 
Prices  quoted  in  the  proposal  shall  remain  fixed  and  binding  on  the  bidder  at  least  
through June  30,  2028.      The  State  of  Delaware  reserves  the  right  to  ask  for  an  
extension of time if needed. 
 
6.   Late Proposals 
Proposals submitted after the specified date and time will not be accepted by the Euna 
Procurement  (formerly  Bonfire)  Portal.    Evaluation  of  the  proposals  is  expected  to  
begin shortly after the proposal due date.  To document compliance with the deadline, 
the  proposal  will  be  date  and  time  stamped  upon  receipt  by  Euna  Procurement  
(formerly Bonfire). 
 
7.   Proposal Opening 
The  State  of  Delaware  will  receive  proposals
  via Euna  Procurement  (formerly  
Bonfire)
 until the date and time shown in this RFP.  Proposals will be opened in the 
presence of State of Delaware personnel.   
 
There will be no public opening of proposals, but a public log will be kept of the names 
of  all  vendor  organizations  that  submitted  proposals.    The  contents  of  any  proposal  
shall not be disclosed in accordance with 29 Del. C. § 10001, et seq.  (“FOIA”). 
 
8.   Non-Conforming Proposals 
Non-conforming  proposals  will  not  be  considered.    Non-conforming  proposals  are  
defined as those that do not meet the requirements of this RFP.  The determination of 
whether  an  RFP  requirement  is  substantive,  or  a  mere  formality  shall  reside  solely  
within the State of Delaware. 
 
9.   Concise Proposals 
The State of Delaware discourages overly lengthy and costly proposals.  It is the desire 
that proposals be prepared in a straightforward and concise manner.  Unnecessarily 
elaborate brochures or other promotional materials beyond those sufficient to present 
a complete and effective proposal are not desired.  The State of Delaware’s interest is 
in the quality and responsiveness of the proposal. 
 
10. Realistic Proposals 
It  is  the  expectation  of  the  State  of  Delaware  that  vendors  can  fully  satisfy  the  
obligations of the proposal in the manner and timeframe defined within the proposal.  
Proposals must be realistic and must represent the best estimate of time, materials 
and other costs including the impact of inflation and any economic or other factors that 
are reasonably predictable. 
 
The State of Delaware shall bear no responsibility or increase obligation for a vendor’s 
failure to accurately estimate the costs or resources required to meet the obligations 
defined in the proposal. 
 
11. Confidentiality of Documents 
The  State  of  Delaware  and  its  constituent  agencies  are  required  to  comply  with  the  
State of Delaware Freedom of Information Act, 
29 Del. C. § 10001, et seq.  (“FOIA”).  
FOIA  requires  that  the  State  of  Delaware’s  records  are  public  records  (unless  
otherwise declared by FOIA or other law to be exempt from disclosure) and are subject 


---PAGE_10---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 10 
to  inspection  and  copying  by  any  person  upon  a  written  request.    All  proposals  are  
subject to FOIA’s public disclosure obligations.  
 
(Note:  A  FOIA  request  can  be  made  via  this  link  https://dhss.delaware.gov/foia/.  
DHSS will comply with the request after the RFP has been awarded..) 
 
The  State  of  Delaware  wishes  to  create  a  business-friendly  environment  and  
procurement process.  As such, the State respects the vendor community’s desire to 
protect  its  intellectual  property,  trade  secrets,  and  confidential  business  information  
(collectively referred to herein as “confidential business information”). Proposals must 
contain sufficient information to be evaluated.   If a vendor feels that they cannot submit 
their proposal without including confidential business information, they must adhere to 
the following procedure, or their proposal may be deemed unresponsive, may not be 
recommended for selection, and any applicable protection for the vendor’s confidential 
business information may be lost. 
   
In  order  to  allow  the  State  to  assess  its  ability  to  protect  a  vendor’s  confidential  
business  information,  vendors  will  be  permitted  to  designate  appropriate  portions  of  
their proposal as confidential business information.   
 
Vendor(s) may submit portions of a proposal considered to be confidential business 
information  in  separate  file(s)  identified  as  “Confidential  Business  Information”  and  
include the specific RFP number.  The file must contain a letter from the vendor’s legal 
counsel  describing  the  documents  in  the  file,  representing  in  good  faith  that  the  
information in each document is not “public record” as defined by 29 Del. C. § 10002, 
and briefly stating the reasons that each document meets the said definitions. 
 
Upon  receipt  of  a  proposal  accompanied  by  such  separate  file(s),  the  State  of  
Delaware will open the file to determine whether the procedure described above has 
been followed.  A vendor’s allegation as to its confidential business information shall 
not be binding on the State.  The State shall independently determine the validity of 
any vendor designation as set forth in this section.  Any vendor submitting a proposal 
or using the procedures discussed herein expressly accepts the State’s absolute right 
and duty  to  independently  assess  the  legal  and  factual  validity  of  any  information  
designated  as  confidential  business  information.  Accordingly,  vendor(s)  assume  the  
risk that confidential business information included in a proposal may enter the public 
domain. 
 
12. Multi-Vendor Solutions (Joint Ventures) 
Multi-vendor solutions (joint ventures) will be allowed only if one of the venture partners 
is  designated  as  the  “prime  contractor”. The “prime  contractor” must be the joint 
venture’s  contact  point  for  the  State  of  Delaware  and  be  responsible  for  the  joint  
venture’s performance under the contract, including all project management, legal and 
financial responsibility for the implementation of all vendor systems.  If a joint venture 
is   proposed,   a   copy   of   the   joint   venture   agreement   clearly   describing   the   
responsibilities of the partners must be submitted with the proposal.  Services specified 
in the proposal shall not be subcontracted without prior written approval by the State 
of  Delaware,  and  approval  of  a  request  to  subcontract  shall  not  in  any  way  relieve  
Vendor of responsibility for the professional and technical accuracy and adequacy of 
the work.  Further, vendor shall be and remain liable for all damages to the State of 


---PAGE_11---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 11 
Delaware  caused  by  negligent  performance  or  non-performance  of  work  by  its  
subcontractor or its sub-subcontractor. 
 
Multi-vendor proposals must be a consolidated response with all cost included in the 
cost summary.  Where necessary, RFP response pages are to be duplicated for each 
vendor. 
 
a.   Primary Vendor 
The  State  of  Delaware  expects  to  negotiate  and  contract  with  only  one  “prime  
vendor”.  The State of Delaware will not accept any proposals that reflect an equal 
teaming arrangement or from vendors who are co-bidding on this RFP.  The prime 
vendor will be responsible for the management of all subcontractors.  
 
Any contract that may result from this RFP shall specify that the prime vendor is 
solely responsible for fulfillment of any contract with the State as a result of this 
procurement.  The State will make contract payments only to the awarded vendor.  
Payments  to  any-subcontractors  are  the  sole  responsibility  of  the  prime  vendor  
(awarded vendor). 
 
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the State of Delaware from the full exercise of 
its options under Section IV.B.18 regarding multiple source contracting. 
 
b.   Sub-contracting 
The vendor selected shall be solely responsible for contractual performance and 
management of all subcontract relationships.  This contract allows subcontracting 
assignments; however, vendors assume all responsibility for work quality, delivery, 
installation,    maintenance,    and    any    supporting    services    required    by    a    
subcontractor. 
 
Use  of  subcontractors  must  be  clearly  explained  in  the  proposal,  and  major  
subcontractors must be identified by name.   
 
The  prime  vendor  shall  be  wholly  responsible  for  the  entire  contract  
performance whether or not subcontractors are used.   
 
Any sub-contractors must be approved by State of Delaware. 
 
c.   Multiple Proposals 
A primary vendor may not participate in more than one proposal in any form.  Sub-
contracting vendors may participate in multiple joint venture proposals. 
 
13. Sub-Contracting 
The  vendor  selected  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  contractual  performance  and  
management  of  all  subcontract  relationships.    This  contract  allows  subcontracting  
assignments;  however,  vendors  assume  all  responsibility  for  work  quality,  delivery,  
installation, maintenance, and any supporting services required by a subcontractor. 
The use of subcontractors WILL be permitted for this project.   


---PAGE_12---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 12 
The proposed subcontractors must be approved by the Division of Public Health.  
Proposed subcontractors must be identified in the proposal; any subcontractor 
engaged after award must be approved in advance by the Division.  The organization 
remains fully responsible for subcontractor performance, and all subcontracts must 
incorporate the fund-use, reporting, and audit requirements of the award agreement. 
If a subcontractor is    going to  be used, this needs to  be specified in    the proposal, with 
an identification of the proposed subcontractor by name, the service(s) to  be provided, 
and its qualifications to  provide such service(s).  
Subcontractors will be held to the same requirements as the primary contractor.  
The contract with the primary contractor will bind sub  or  co-contractors  to  the  primary 
contractor by the terms,  specifications,  and  standards  of the RFP.    All  such  terms, 
specifications, and standards shall preserve and protect the rights of the agency under 
the RFP and  any  subsequent  proposals  and  contracts with  respect  to  the  services 
performed by the sub or co-contractor, so that the sub or co-contractor will not prejudice 
such rights. Nothing in the RFP shall create any contractual relation between any sub 
or co-contractor and the agency. 
 
14. Discrepancies and Omissions 
Vendor is fully responsible for the completeness and accuracy of their proposal, and 
for  examining  this  RFP  and  all  addenda.    Failure  to  do  so  will  be  at  the  sole  risk  of  
vendor.  Should vendor find discrepancies, omissions, unclear or ambiguous intent or 
meaning, or should any questions arise concerning this RFP, vendor shall notify the 
State of Delaware’s Designated Contact, in writing, of such findings at least ten (10) 
days before the proposal opening.  This will allow issuance of any necessary addenda.  
It will also help prevent the opening of a defective proposal and exposure of vendor’s 
proposal  upon  which  award  could  not  be  made.    All  unresolved  issues  should  be  
addressed in the proposal. 
 
Protests based on any omission or error, or on the content of the solicitation, will be 
disallowed  if  these  faults  have  not  been  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Designated  
Contact, in writing, at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the time set for opening of 
the proposals. 
 
15. State’s Right to Reject Proposals 
The State of Delaware reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals or any 
part  of  any  proposal,  to  waive  defects,  technicalities  or  any  specifications  (whether  
they be in the State of Delaware’s specifications or vendor’s response), to sit and act 
as sole judge of the merit and qualifications of each product offered, or to solicit new 
proposals on the same project or on a modified project which may include portions of 
the originally proposed project as the State of Delaware may deem necessary in the 
best interest of the State of Delaware. 
 
16. State’s Right to Cancel Solicitation 
The State of Delaware reserves the right to cancel this solicitation at any time during 
the  procurement  process,  for  any  reason  or  for  no  reason.    The  State  of  Delaware  
makes no commitments expressed or implied, that this process will result in a business 
transaction with any vendor. 
 


---PAGE_13---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 13 
This RFP does not constitute an offer by the State of Delaware.  Vendor’s participation 
in  this  process  may  result  in  the  State  of  Delaware  selecting  your  organization  to  
engage in further discussions and negotiations toward execution of a contract.  The 
commencement of such negotiations does not, however, signify a commitment by the 
State  of  Delaware  to  execute  a  contract  nor  to  continue  negotiations.    The  State  of  
Delaware may terminate negotiations at any time and for any reason, or for no reason. 
 
17. State’s Right to Award Multiple Source Contracting 
Pursuant  to  29  Del.  C. 
§  6986,  the  State  of  Delaware  may  award  a  contract  for  a  
particular  professional  service  to  two  or  more  vendors  if  the  agency  head  makes  a  
determination that such an award is in the best interest of the State of Delaware. 
 
18. Potential Contract Overlap 
Vendors shall be advised that the State, at its sole discretion, shall retain the right to 
solicit for goods and/or services as required by its agencies and as it serves the best 
interest of the State.  As needs are identified, there may exist instances where contract 
deliverables,  and/or  goods  or  services  to  be  solicited  and  subsequently  awarded,  
overlap previous awards.  The State reserves the right to reject any or all bids in whole 
or in part, to make partial awards, to award to multiple vendors during the same period, 
to award by types, on a zone-by-zone basis or on an item-by-item or lump sum basis 
item by item, or lump sum total, whichever may be most advantageous to the State of 
Delaware. 
 
19. Supplemental Solicitation 
The State reserves the right to advertise a supplemental solicitation during the term of 
the Agreement if deemed in the best interest of the State.   
 
20. Notification of Withdrawal of Proposal 
Vendor  may  modify  or  withdraw  its  proposal  by  written  request,  provided  that  both  
proposal and request is received by the State of Delaware prior to the proposal due 
date.    Proposals  may  be  re-submitted  in  accordance  with  the  proposal  due  date  in  
order to be considered further. 
 
Proposals become the property of the State of Delaware at the proposal submission 
deadline.  All proposals received are considered firm offers at that time. 
 
21. Revisions to the RFP 
If it becomes necessary to revise any part of the RFP, an addendum will be posted 
on the State of Delaware’s website at www.bids.delaware.gov and 
https://dhss.bonfirehub.com. The State of Delaware is not bound by any statement 
related to this RFP made by any State of Delaware employee, contractor or its 
agents. 
 
22. Exceptions to the RFP 
Any exceptions to the RFP, or the State of Delaware’s terms and conditions, must be 
recorded on Attachment 4.  Acceptance of exceptions is within the sole discretion of 
the evaluation committee. 
 
23. Business References 
Provide  at  least  three  (3)  business  references  consisting  of  current  or  previous  
customers  of  similar  scope  and  value  using  Attachment  6.    Include  business  name,  


---PAGE_14---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 14 
mailing address, contact name and phone number, number of years doing business 
with, and type of work performed.  Personal references cannot be considered.   
 
24. Award of Contract 
The  final  award  of  a  contract  is  subject  to  approval  by  the  State  of  Delaware.    The  
State of Delaware has the sole right to select the successful vendor(s) for award, to 
reject any proposal as unsatisfactory or non-responsive, to award a contract to other 
than the lowest priced proposal, to award multiple contracts, or not to award a contract, 
as a result of this RFP. 
 
Notice in writing to a vendor of the acceptance of its proposal by the State of Delaware 
and the subsequent full execution of a written contract will constitute a contract, and 
no vendor will acquire any legal or equitable rights or privileges until the occurrence of 
both such events. 
 
a.   RFP Award Notifications 
After  reviews  of  the  evaluation  committee  report  and  its  recommendation,  and  
once the contract terms and conditions have been finalized, the State of Delaware 
will award the contract. 
 
The   contract   shall   be   awarded   to   the   vendor   whose   proposal   is   most   
advantageous, taking into consideration the evaluation factors set forth in the RFP. 
 
It should be explicitly noted that the State of Delaware is not obligated to award 
the contract to the vendor who submits the lowest bid or the vendor who receives 
the  highest  total  point  score,  rather  the  contract  will  be  awarded  to  the  vendor  
whose proposal is the most advantageous to the State of Delaware.  The award is 
subject to the appropriate State of Delaware approvals. 
 
After  a  final  selection  is  made,  the  winning  vendor  will  be  invited  to  negotiate  a  
contract with the State of Delaware; remaining vendors will be notified in writing of 
their selection status. 
 
25. Cooperatives 
Vendors,  who  have  been  awarded  similar  contracts  through  a  competitive  bidding  
process  with  a  cooperative,  are  welcome  to  submit  the  cooperative  pricing  for  this  
solicitation. State of Delaware terms will take precedence. 
 
C.  RFP Evaluation Process 
An evaluation team composed of representatives of the State of Delaware will evaluate 
proposals on a variety of quantitative criteria.  Neither the lowest price nor highest scoring 
proposal will necessarily be selected. 
 
The  State  of  Delaware  reserves  full  discretion  to  determine  the  competence  and  
responsibility, professionally and/or financially, of vendors.  Vendors are to provide in a 
timely manner any and all information that the State of Delaware may deem necessary to 
decide. 
 
1.   Proposal Evaluation Team 
The Proposal Evaluation Team shall be comprised of representatives of the State of 
Delaware.  The Team shall determine which vendors meet the minimum requirements 


---PAGE_15---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 15 
pursuant to selection criteria of the RFP and procedures established in 29 Del. C. §§ 
6981 and 6982. Professional services for this solicitation are considered under 29 Del. 
C.  §  6982(b).  The  Team  may  negotiate  with  one  or  more  vendors  during  the  same  
period and may, at its discretion, terminate negotiations with any or all vendors.  The 
Team shall make a recommendation regarding the award to Delaware Health Fund 
Advisory Committee
, who shall have final authority, subject to the provisions of this 
RFP and 29 Del. 
C. § 6982(b), to award a contract to the successful vendor in the 
best interests of the State of Delaware. 
 
2.   Proposal Selection Criteria 
The Proposal Evaluation Team shall assign up to the maximum number of points for 
each Evaluation Item to each of the proposing vendor’s proposals.  All assignments of 
points shall be at the sole discretion of the Proposal Evaluation Team. 
 
The  proposals  shall  contain  the  essential  information  on  which  the  award  decision  
shall be made.  The information required to be submitted in response to this RFP has 
been determined by the State of Delaware to be essential for use by the Team in the 
bid evaluation and award process.  Therefore, all instructions contained in this RFP 
shall  be  met  in  order  to  qualify  as  a  responsive  and  responsible  contractor  and  
participate  in  the  Proposal  Evaluation  Team’s  consideration  for  award.    Proposals  
which do not meet or comply with the instructions of this RFP may be considered non-
conforming  and  deemed  non-responsive  and  subject  to  disqualification  at  the  sole  
discretion of the Team. 
 
The Team reserves the right to: 
• Select for contract or for negotiations a proposal other than that with lowest costs. 
• Reject any and all proposals or portions of proposals received in response to this 
RFP or to make no award or issue a new RFP. 
• Waive  or  modify  any  information,  irregularity,  or  inconsistency  in  proposals  
received. 
• Request  modification  to  proposals  from  any  or  all  vendors  during  the  contract  
review and negotiation. 
• Negotiate any aspect of the proposal with any vendor and negotiate with more than 
one vendor at the same time. 
• Select more than one vendor pursuant to 29 Del. C. 
§   6986.  
 
 
Criteria Weight 
All  proposals  shall  be  evaluated  using  the  same  criteria  and  scoring  process.    The  
following criteria shall be used by the Evaluation Team to evaluate proposals: 
 
Criteria Weight 
Statement of Need (§ II.A of proposal)-Delaware-specific evidence of 
the health need and the service gap the program fills; for returning 
organizations, including prior-year results. 
[15] 
Alignment with Health Fund Priorities (§ II.B)-fit with the purposes in 
16 Del. C. § 137(d), with the strongest weight for direct ties to tobacco 
[25] 


---PAGE_16---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 16 
Criteria Weight 
prevention and cessation and to cancer prevention, detection, and 
treatment. 
Program Design and Feasibility (§ II.C)-goals, activities, timeline, 
staffing, and geographic reach that are specific, coherent, and 
achievable within the contract year. 
[20] 
Measurable Outcomes and Evaluation Plan (§ II.D)-specific, verifiable 
objectives with indicators, targets, and data sources, suitable for 
incorporation into the award agreement. 
[20] 
Organizational Capacity & Past Performance (§ II.E)-governance, 
financial management, audit history, and experience operating 
programs of similar scope. 
[10] 
Budget Reasonableness and Sustainability (§ II.F)= justified costs 
proportionate to reach, documented other funding, and a realistic plan 
given declining Master Settlement Agreement revenue. 
[10] 
Total 100 
Vendors are encouraged to review the evaluation criteria and to provide a response 
that  addresses  each  of  the  scored  items.    Evaluators  will  not  be  able  to  make  
assumptions  about  a  vendor’s  capabilities  so  the  responding  vendor  should  be  
detailed in their proposal responses. 
 
3.   Proposal Clarification 
The  Evaluation  Team  may  contact  any  vendor  in  order  to  clarify  uncertainties  or  
eliminate  confusion  concerning  the  contents  of  a  proposal.    Proposals  may  not  be  
modified as a result of any such clarification request. 
 
4.   References 
The Evaluation Team may contact any customer of the vendor, whether or not included 
in  the  vendor’s  reference  list,  and  use  such  information  in  the  evaluation  process.    
Additionally,  the  State  of  Delaware  may  choose  to  visit  existing  installations  of  
comparable systems, which may or may not include vendor personnel.  If the vendor 
is involved in such site visits, the State of Delaware will pay travel costs only for State 
of Delaware personnel for these visits. 
 
5.   Oral Presentations 
After  initial  scoring  and  a  determination  that  vendor(s)  are  qualified to  perform  the  
required services, selected vendors may be invited to make oral presentations to the 
Evaluation Team.  All vendor(s) selected will be given an opportunity to present to the 
Evaluation Team. 
 
The selected vendors will  have  their  presentations  scored or  ranked  based  on  their  
ability  to  successfully  meet  the  needs  of  the  contract  requirements,  successfully  
demonstrate their product and/or service, and respond to questions about the solution 
capabilities.  
 


---PAGE_17---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 17 
The  vendor  representative(s)  attending  the  oral  presentation  shall  be  technically  
qualified to respond to questions related to the proposed system and its components.  
 
All of the vendor's costs associated with participation in oral discussions and system 
demonstrations conducted for the State of Delaware are the vendor’s responsibility. 
 
V. Contract Terms and Conditions 
A. Contract Use by Other Agencies 
REF:  Title 29, Chapter 
6904(e) Delaware Code.  If no state contract exists for a certain 
good or service, covered agencies may procure that certain good or service under another 
agency's contract so long as the arrangement is agreeable to all parties. Agencies, other 
than covered agencies, may also procure such goods or services under another agency's 
contract when the arrangement is agreeable to all parties. 
B. Cooperative Use of Award 
As a publicly competed contract awarded in compliance with 29 DE Code Chapter 69, this 
contract  is  available  for  use  by  other  states  and/or  governmental  entities  through  a  
participating addendum. Interested parties should contact the State Contract Procurement 
Officer identified in the contract for instruction. Final approval for permitting participation 
in this contract resides with the Director of Government Support Services and in no way 
places any obligation upon the awarded vendor(s). 
C. General Information 
1.   Contract term is one (1) year, anticipated July 1, 2027 through June 30, 2028, 
contingent on appropriation.  Funding in subsequent fiscal years is not a renewal right: 
continued funding is subject to the annual statutory process under 16 Del. C. § 137(i), 
including the annual request for proposals, and to annual appropriation.  Organizations 
funded in Fiscal Year 2028 that seek Fiscal Year 2029 funding must respond to the Fiscal 
Year  2029  RFP  (anticipated  release  on  or  before  July  1,  2027),  which  is  expected  to  
include  a  streamlined  continuation  response  for  organizations  proposing  to  continue  
substantially the same program. 
 
2. As a Service subscription license costs shall be incurred at the individual license level 
only as the individual license is utilized within a fully functioning solution.  Subscription 
costs will not be applicable during periods of implementation and solution development 
prior  to  the  State’s  full  acceptance  of  a  working  solution.    Additional  subscription  
license  requests  above  actual  utilization  may  not  exceed  5%  of  the  total  and  are  
subject to Delaware budget and technical review.  
  
3. The selected vendor will be required to enter into a written agreement with the State 
of Delaware.  The State of Delaware reserves the right to incorporate standard State 
contractual provisions into any contract negotiated as a result of a proposal 
submitted in response to this RFP.  Any proposed modifications to the terms and 
conditions of the standard contract are subject to review and approval by the State of 
Delaware. Vendors will be required to sign the contract for all services and may be 
required to sign additional agreements. 
 


---PAGE_18---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 18 
4. The selected vendor or vendors will be expected to enter negotiations with the State 
of Delaware, which will result in a formal contract between parties.  Procurement will 
be in accordance with subsequent contracted agreement.  This RFP and the 
selected vendor’s response to this RFP will be incorporated as part of any formal 
contract. 
 
5. The State of Delaware’s standard contract will most likely be supplemented with the 
vendor’s software license, support/maintenance, source code escrow agreements, 
and any other applicable agreements.  The terms and conditions of these 
agreements will be negotiated with the finalist during actual contract negotiations. 
 
6. The successful vendor shall promptly execute a contract incorporating the terms of 
this RFP within twenty (20) days after award of the contract.  No vendor is to begin 
any service prior to receipt of    a State of Delaware purchase order signed by two 
authorized representatives of the agency requesting service, properly processed 
through the State of Delaware Accounting Office and the Department of Finance.  
The purchase order shall serve as the authorization to proceed in accordance with 
the bid specifications and the special instructions, once it is received by the 
successful vendor. 
 
7. If the vendor to whom the award is made fails to enter into the agreement as herein 
provided, the award will be annulled, and an award may be made to another vendor.  
Such vendor shall fulfill every stipulation embraced herein as if they were the party to 
whom the first award was made. 
 
8. The State reserves the right to extend this contract on a month-to-month basis for a 
period of up to three months after the term of the full contract has been completed. 
 
9. Vendors are not restricted from offering lower pricing at any time during the contract 
term. 
D. Collusion or Fraud 
Any  evidence  of  agreement  or  collusion  among  vendor(s)  and  prospective  vendor(s)  
acting to illegally restrain freedom from competition by agreement to offer a fixed price, or 
otherwise, will render the offers of such vendor(s) void. 
 
By responding, the vendor shall be deemed to have represented and warranted that its 
proposal  is  not  made  in  connection  with  any  competing  vendor  submitting  a  separate  
response  to  this  RFP,  and  is  in  all  respects  fair  and  without  collusion  or  fraud;  that  the 
vendor did not participate in the RFP development process and had no knowledge of the 
specific contents of the RFP prior to its issuance; and that no employee or official of the 
State of Delaware participated directly or indirectly in the vendor’s proposal preparation. 
 
Advance knowledge of information which gives any particular vendor advantages over any 
other interested vendor(s), in advance of the opening of proposals, whether in response 
to advertising or an employee or representative thereof, will potentially void that particular 
proposal. 


---PAGE_19---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 19 
E. Lobbying and Gratuities 
Lobbying or providing gratuities shall be strictly prohibited.  Vendors found to be lobbying, 
providing gratuities to, or in any way attempting to influence a State of Delaware employee 
or agent of the State of Delaware concerning this RFP or the award of a contract resulting 
from  this  RFP  shall  have  their  proposal  immediately  rejected  and  shall  be  barred  from  
further participation in this RFP. 
 
The selected vendor will warrant that no person or selling agency has been employed or 
retained  to  solicit  or  secure  a  contract  resulting  from  this  RFP  upon  agreement  or  
understanding  for  a  commission,  or  a  percentage,  brokerage  or  contingent  fee.    For  
breach or violation of this warranty, the State of Delaware shall have the right to annul any 
contract resulting from this RFP without liability or at its discretion deduct from the contract 
price or otherwise recover the full amount of such commission, percentage, brokerage or 
contingent fee. 
 
All  contact  with  State  of  Delaware  employees,  contractors  or  agents  of  the  State  of  
Delaware concerning this RFP shall be conducted in strict accordance with the manner, 
forum and conditions set forth in this RFP. 
F.  Solicitation of State Employees 
Until contract award, vendors shall not, directly or indirectly, solicit any employee of the 
State of Delaware to leave the State of Delaware’s employ in order to accept employment 
with  the  vendor,  its  affiliates,  actual  or  prospective  contractors,  or  any  person  acting  in  
concert with vendor, without prior written approval of the State of Delaware’s contracting 
officer.  Solicitation of State of Delaware employees by a vendor may result in rejection of 
the vendor’s proposal. 
 
This  paragraph  does  not  prevent  the  employment  by  a  vendor  of  a  State  of  Delaware  
employee  who  has  initiated  contact  with  the  vendor.    However,  State  of  Delaware  
employees  may  be  legally  prohibited  from  accepting  employment  with  the  contractor  or  
subcontractor under certain circumstances.  Vendors may not knowingly employ a person 
who cannot legally accept employment under state or federal law.  If a vendor discovers 
that they have done so, they must terminate that employment immediately. 
G. General Contract Terms 
1.   Independent Contractors 
The  parties  to  the  contract  shall  be  independent  contractors  to  one  another,  and  
nothing  herein  shall  be  deemed  to  cause  this  agreement  to  create  an  agency,  
partnership,  joint  venture  or  employment  relationship  between  parties.    Each  party  
shall  be  responsible  for  compliance  with  all  applicable  workers  compensation,  
unemployment,  disability  insurance,  social  security  withholding  and  all  other  similar  
matters.    Neither  party  shall  be  liable  for  any  debts,  accounts,  obligations  or  other  
liability whatsoever of the other party or any other obligation of the other party to pay 
on  the  behalf  of  its  employees  or  to  withhold  from  any  compensation  paid  to  such  
employees  any  social  benefits,  workers  compensation  insurance  premiums  or  any  
income or other similar taxes. 
 
It  may  be  at  the  State  of  Delaware’s  discretion  as  to  the  location  of  work  for  the  
contractual support personnel during the project period.  The State of Delaware may 


---PAGE_20---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 20 
provide   working   space   and   sufficient   supplies   and   material   to   augment   the   
Contractor’s services. 
2.   Temporary Personnel are Not State Employees Unless and Until They are           
Hired 
Vendor  agrees  that  any  individual  or  group  of  temporary  staff  person(s)  provided  to  
the  State  of  Delaware  pursuant  to  this  Solicitation  shall  remain  the  employee(s)  of  
Vendor for all purposes including any required compliance with the Affordable Care 
Act by the Vendor.  Vendor agrees that it shall not allege, argue, or take any position 
that  individual  temporary  staff  person(s)  provided  to  the  State  pursuant  to  this  
Solicitation  must  be  provided  any  benefits,  including  any  healthcare  benefits  by  the  
State of Delaware and Vendor agrees to assume the total and complete responsibility 
for  the  provision  of  any  healthcare  benefits  required  by  the  Affordable  Care  Act  to  
aforesaid individual temporary staff person(s).  In the event that the Internal Revenue 
Service,  or  any  other  third  party  governmental  entity  determines  that  the  State  of  
Delaware  is  a  dual  employer  or  the  sole  employer  of  any  individual  temporary  staff  
person(s)  provided  to  the  State  of  Delaware  pursuant  to  this  Solicitation,  Vendor  
agrees to hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the State to the maximum extent of 
any liability to the State arising out of such determinations.   
 
Notwithstanding the content of the preceding paragraph, should the State of Delaware 
subsequently direct hire any individual temporary staff employee(s) provided pursuant 
to  this  Solicitation,  the  aforementioned  obligations  to  hold  harmless,  indemnify,  and  
defend the State of Delaware shall cease and terminate for the period following the 
date of hire.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to terminate the Vendor’s obligation to 
hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the State of Delaware for any liability that arises 
out  of  compliance  with  the  ACA  prior  to  the  date  of  hire  by  the  State  of  Delaware.    
Vendor will waive any separation fee provided an employee works for both the vendor 
and hiring agency, continuously, for a three (3) month period and is provided thirty (30) 
days written notice of intent to hire from the agency. Notice can be issued at second 
month if it is the State’s intention to hire. 
 
3.   Work Performed in a State Building 
Awarded Vendor(s) who have any employees carrying out any work related to the 
awarded contract at a State facility shall have those employees comply with any 
health mandate or policy issued by the State related to a pandemic or other State of 
Emergency issued by any State authority during the term of the awarded contract, 
including those that apply directly to State employees.   
4.   ACA Safe Harbor
 
The State and its utilizing agencies are not the employer of temporary or contracted 
staff. However, the State is concerned that it could be determined to be a Common-
law  Employer  as  defined  by  the  Affordable  Care  Act  (“ACA”).    Therefore,  the  State  
seeks to utilize the “Common-law Employer Safe Harbor Exception” under the ACA to 
transfer health benefit insurance requirements to the staffing company.  The Common-
law  Employer  Safe  Harbor  Exception  can  be  attained  when  the  State  and/or  its  
agencies are charged and pay for an “Additional Fee” with respect to the employees 
electing to obtain health coverage from the Vendor. 
 


---PAGE_21---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 21 
The Common-law Employer Safe Harbor Exception under the ACA requires that an 
Additional Fee must be charged to those employees who obtain health coverage from 
the Vendor but does not state the required amount of the fee.  The State requires that 
all Vendors shall identify the Additional Fee to obtain health coverage from the Vendor 
and delineate the Additional Fee from all other charges and fees.  The Vendor shall 
identify both the Additional Fee to be charged, and the basis of how the fee is applied 
(i.e. per employee, per invoice, etc.). The State will consider the Additional Fee and 
prior to award reserves the right to negotiate any fees offered by the Vendor.  Further, 
the Additional  Fee  shall  be  separately  scored  in  the  proposal  to  ensure  that  neither  
prices  charged  nor  the  Additional  Fee  charged  will  have  a  detrimental  effect  when  
selecting vendor(s) for award. 
5.   Licenses and Permits 
In performance of the contract, the vendor will be required to comply with all applicable 
federal, state and local laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations.  The cost of permits 
and other relevant costs required in the performance of the contract shall be borne by 
the  successful  vendor.    The  vendor  shall  be  properly  licensed  and  authorized  to  
transact business in the State of Delaware as provided in 
30 Del. C. § 2101. 
 
Prior  to  receiving  an  award,  the  successful  vendor  shall  either  furnish  the  State  of  
Delaware with proof of State of Delaware Business Licensure or initiate the process of 
application where required.  An application may be requested in writing to: Division of 
Revenue,  Carvel  State  Building,  P.O.  Box  8750,  820  N.  French  Street,  Wilmington,  
DE 19899 or by telephone to one of the following numbers: (302) 577-8200—Public 
Service, (302) 577-8205—Licensing Department. 
 
Information  regarding  the  award  of  the  contract  will  be  given  to  the  Division  of  
Revenue.  Failure to comply with the State of Delaware licensing requirements may 
subject vendor to applicable fines and/or interest penalties. 
6.   Notice 
Any  notice  to  the  State  of  Delaware  required  under  the  contract  shall  be  sent  by  
registered mail to: 
 
State of Delaware 
Division of Public Health 
417 Federal Street 
Dover, DE 19904 
E-mail Address: DHSS_DPH_HealthFund@delaware.gov  
7.   Indemnification 
a. General Indemnification 
By submitting a proposal, the proposing vendor agrees that in the event it is 
awarded a contract, it will indemnify and otherwise hold harmless the State of 
Delaware, its agents and employees from any and all liability, suits, actions, or 
claims, together with all costs, expenses for attorney’s fees, arising out of the 
vendor’s, its agents and employees’ performance work or services in connection 
with the contract. 
 
 


---PAGE_22---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 22 
b. Proprietary Rights Indemnification 
Vendor  shall  warrant  that  all  elements  of  its  solution,  including  all  equipment,  
software,  documentation,  services  and  deliverables,  do  not  and  will  not  infringe  
upon or violate any patent, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any 
third party.  In the event of any claim, suit or action by any third party against the 
State of Delaware, the State of Delaware shall promptly notify the vendor in writing 
and vendor shall defend such claim, suit or action at vendor’s expense, and vendor 
shall indemnify the State of Delaware against any loss, cost, damage, expense or 
liability  arising  out  of  such  claim,  suit  or  action  (including,  without  limitation,  
litigation costs, lost employee time, and counsel fees) whether or not such claim, 
suit or action is successful. 
 
If  any  equipment,  software,  services  (including  methods)  products  or  other  
intellectual property used or furnished by the vendor (collectively ”Products”) is or 
in  vendor’s  reasonable  judgment  is  likely  to  be,  held  to  constitute  an  infringing  
product, vendor shall at its expense and option either: 
(1) Procure the right for the State of Delaware to continue using the Product(s);  
(2) Replace the product with a non-infringing equivalent that satisfies all the 
requirements of the contract; or  
(3) Modify the Product(s) to make it or them non-infringing, provided that the 
modification does not materially alter the functionality or efficacy of the 
product or cause the Product(s) or any part of the work to fail to conform to 
the requirements of the Contract, or only alters the Product(s) to a degree 
that the State of Delaware agrees to and accepts in writing. 
8.   Insurance 
a.   Vendor recognizes that it is operating as an independent contractor and that it is 
liable for any and all losses, penalties, damages, expenses, attorney’s fees, 
judgments, and/or settlements incurred by reason of injury to or death of any and 
all persons, or injury to any and all property, of any nature, arising out of the 
vendor’s negligent performance under this contract, and particularly without 
limiting the foregoing, caused by, resulting from, or arising out of any act of 
omission on the part of the vendor in their negligent performance under this 
contract. 
b.   The vendor shall maintain such insurance as will protect against claims under 
Worker’s Compensation Act and from any other claims for damages for personal 
injury, including death, which may arise from operations under this contract.  The 
vendor is an independent contractor and is not an employee of the State of 
Delaware. 
c.   As a part of the contract requirements, the contractor must obtain at its own cost 
and expense and keep in force and effect during the term of this contract, 
including all extensions, the minimum coverage limits specified below with a 
carrier satisfactory to the State.  All contractors must carry the following coverage 
depending on the type of service or product being delivered. 
 
(1)  Worker’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance in accordance with 
applicable law. 
 
(2)  Commercial  General  Liability  -  $1,000,000  per  occurrence/$3,000,000  per  
aggregate. 
 


---PAGE_23---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 23 
(3)  Automotive Liability Insurance covering all automotive units used in the work 
(including all units leased from and/or provided by the State to Vendor pursuant 
to this Agreement as well as all units used by Vendor, regardless of the identity 
of the registered owner, used by Vendor for completing the Work required by 
this  Agreement  to  include  but  not  limited  to  transporting  Delaware  clients  or  
staff), providing coverage on a primary non-contributory basis with limits of not 
less than: 
 
(a)  $1,000,000 combined single limit each accident, for bodily injury; 
 
(b)  $250,000 for property damage to others; 
 
(c)  $25,000   per   person   per   accident   Uninsured/Underinsured   Motorists   
coverage; 
 
(d)  $25,000  per  person,  $300,000  per  accident  Personal  Injury  Protection  
(PIP) benefits as provided for in 21 Del. C. §2118; and 
 
(e)  Comprehensive  coverage  for  all  leased  vehicles,  which  shall  cover  the  
replacement cost of the vehicle in the event of collision, damage or other 
loss. 
 
d.   The successful vendor must carry at least one of the following depending on the 
scope of work being performed. 
 
(1)  Medical/Professional  Liability  -  $1,000,000  per  occurrence/$3,000,000  per  
aggregate 
 
(2)  Miscellaneous Errors and Omissions - $1,000,000 per occurrence/ $3,000,000 
per aggregate 
 
(3)  Product Liability - $1,000,000 per occurrence/$3,000,000 aggregate 
 
e.   Should  any  of  the  above-described  policies  be  cancelled  before  expiration  date  
thereof, notice will be delivered in accordance with the policy provisions. 
 
f. Before any work is done pursuant to this Agreement, the Certificate of Insurance 
and/or  copies  of  the  insurance  policies,  referencing  the  contract  number  stated  
herein, shall be filed with the State.  The certificate holder is as follows: 
 
State of Delaware 
Division of Public Health 
Contract No: HSS 28 001 
417 Federal Street  
Dover, DE 19904 
 
g.   Nothing  contained  herein  shall  restrict  or  limit  the  Vendor’s  right  to  procure  
insurance coverage in amounts higher than those required by this Agreement.  To 
the extent that the Vendor procures insurance coverage in amounts higher than 
the amounts required by this Agreement, all said additionally procured coverages 


---PAGE_24---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 24 
will be applicable to any loss or claim and shall replace the insurance obligations 
contained herein. 
 
h.   To the extent that Vendor has complied with the terms of this Agreement and has 
procured insurance coverage for all vehicles Leased and/or operated by Vendor 
as part of this Agreement, the State of Delaware’s self-insured insurance program 
shall not provide any coverage whether coverage is sought as primary, co-primary, 
excess or umbrella insurer or coverage for any loss of any nature. 
 
i. In no event shall the State of Delaware be named as an additional insured on any 
policy required under this agreement. 
 
j. The vendor shall provide a Certificate of Insurance (COI) as proof that the vendor 
has the required insurance.  The COI shall be provided to agency contact prior to 
any work being completed by the awarded vendor(s). 
k.   The State of Delaware shall not be named as an additional insured. 
 
l. Should  any  of  the  above-described  policies  be  cancelled  before  expiration  date  
thereof, notice will be delivered in accordance with the policy provisions. 
 
9.   Performance Requirements 
The  selected  Vendor  will  warrant  that  it  possesses,  or  has  arranged  through  
subcontractors,  all  capital  and  other  equipment,  labor,  materials,  and  licenses  
necessary to carry out and complete the work hereunder in compliance with any and 
all Federal and State laws, and County and local ordinances, regulations and codes. 
10. BID BOND 
 
There is no Bid Bond Requirement. 
11. PERFORMANCE BOND  
 
There is no Performance Bond requirement. 
12. Vendor Emergency Response Point of Contact 
The awarded vendor(s) shall provide the name(s), telephone, or cell phone number(s) 
of those individuals who can be contacted twenty four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days 
a week where there is a critical need for commodities or services when the Governor 
of  the  State  of  Delaware  declares  a  state  of  emergency  under  the  Delaware  
Emergency Operations Plan or in the event of a local emergency or disaster where a 
state governmental entity requires the services of the vendor.  Failure to provide this 
information could render the proposal as non-responsive. 
 
In the event of a serious emergency, pandemic or disaster outside the control of the 
State, the State may negotiate, as may be authorized by law, emergency performance 
from  the  Contractor  to  address  the  immediate  needs  of  the  State,  even  if  not  
contemplated  under  the  original  Contract  or  procurement.    Payments  are  subject  to  
appropriation and other payment terms. 


---PAGE_25---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 25 
13. Warranty 
The  Vendor  will  provide  a  warranty  that  the  deliverables  provided  pursuant  to  the  
contract will function as designed for a period of no less than one (1) year from the 
date of system acceptance.  The warranty shall require the Vendor to  correct, at its 
own  expense,  the  setup,  configuration,  customizations  or  modifications  so  that  it  
functions according to the State’s requirements. 
14. Costs and Payment Schedules 
All  contract  costs  must  be detailed  specifically  in  the  Vendor’s  cost  proposal.        No  
charges  other  than  as  specified  in  the  proposal  shall  be  allowed  without  written  
consent of the State of Delaware.  The proposal costs shall include full compensation 
for all taxes that the selected vendor is required to pay. 
 
The  State  of  Delaware  will  require  a  payment  schedule  based  on  defined  and  
measurable milestones.  Payments for services will not be made in advance of work 
performed.    The  State  of  Delaware  may  require  holdback  of  contract  monies  until  
acceptable performance is demonstrated (as much as 25%). 
15. Liquidated Damages 
The State of Delaware may include in the final contract liquidated damages provisions 
for non-performance. 
16. Dispute Resolution 
At  the  option  of  the  parties,  they  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  resolve  any  dispute  
arising out of or relating to this Agreement promptly by negotiation between executives 
who  have  authority  to  settle  the  controversy  and  who  are  at  a  higher  level  of  
management  than  the  persons  with  direct  responsibility  for  administration  of  this  
Agreement.    All  offers,  promises,  conduct  and  statements,  whether  oral  or  written,  
made in the course of the negotiation by any of the parties, their agents, employees, 
experts  and  attorneys  are  confidential,  privileged  and  inadmissible  for  any  purpose,  
including  impeachment,  in  arbitration  or  other  proceeding  involving  the  parties,  
provided evidence that is otherwise admissible or discoverable shall not be rendered 
inadmissible. 
 
If  the  matter  is  not  resolved  by  negotiation,  as  outlined  above,  or,  alternatively,  the  
parties elect to proceed directly to mediation, then the matter will proceed to mediation 
as set forth below. Any disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to 
this Agreement shall be submitted to a mediator selected by the parties. If the matter 
is not resolved through mediation, it may be submitted for arbitration or litigation.  The 
Agency  reserves  the  right  to  proceed  directly  to  arbitration  or  litigation  without  
negotiation or mediation. Any such proceedings held pursuant to this provision shall 
be governed by State of Delaware law, and jurisdiction and venue shall be in the State 
of Delaware.  Each party shall bear its own costs of mediation, arbitration, or litigation, 
including attorneys’ fees.
 
17. Remedies 
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  solicitation,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  
V.G.15  above,  all  claims,  counterclaims,  disputes,  and  other  matters  in  question  
between  the  State  of  Delaware  and  the  Contractor  arising  out  of,  or  relating  to,  this  


---PAGE_26---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 26 
solicitation, or a breach of it may be decided by arbitration if the parties mutually agree, 
or in a court of competent jurisdiction within the State of Delaware. 
18. Termination of Contract 
The  contract  resulting  from  this  RFP  may  be  terminated  as  follows  by  Department  of  
Health and Social Services (DHSS) Division of Public Health. 
 
 
a. Termination for Cause 
If, for any reasons, or through any cause, the Vendor fails to fulfill in timely and 
proper manner its obligations under this Contract, or if the Vendor violates any of 
the covenants, agreements, or stipulations of this Contract, the State shall 
thereupon have the right to terminate this contract by giving written notice to the 
Vendor of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least 
twenty (20) days before the effective date of such termination.  In that event, all 
finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, surveys, drawings, maps, 
models, photographs, and reports or other material prepared by the Vendor 
under this Contract shall, at the option of the State, become its property, and the 
Vendor shall be entitled to receive just and equitable compensation for any 
satisfactory work completed on such documents and other materials which is 
usable to the State. 
 
On receipt of the contract cancellation notice from the State, the Vendor shall 
have no less than five (5) days to provide a written response and may identify a 
method(s) to resolve the violation(s).  A vendor response shall not affect or 
prevent the contract cancellation unless the State provides a written acceptance 
of the vendor response.  If the State does accept the Vendor’s method and/or 
action plan to correct the identified deficiencies, the State will define the time by 
which the Vendor must fulfill its corrective obligations. Final retraction of the 
State’s termination for cause will only occur after the Vendor successfully 
rectifies the original violation(s). At its discretion the State may reject in writing 
the Vendor’s proposed action plan and proceed with the original contract 
cancellation timeline. 
 
b. Termination for Convenience 
The State may terminate this Contract at any time by giving written notice of such 
termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least twenty (20) days 
before the effective date of such termination. In that event, all finished or 
unfinished documents, data, studies, surveys, drawings, models, photographs, 
reports, supplies, and other materials shall, at the option of the State, become its 
property and the Vendor shall be entitled to receive compensation for any 
satisfactory work completed on such documents and other materials, and which 
is usable to the State.  
  
c. Termination for Non-Appropriations 
In the event the General Assembly fails to appropriate the specific funds 
necessary to enter into or continue the contractual agreement, in whole or part, 
the agreement shall be terminated as to any obligation of the State requiring the 
expenditure of money for which no specific appropriation is available at the end 
of the last fiscal year for which no appropriation is available or upon the 


---PAGE_27---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 27 
exhaustion of funds. This is not a termination for convenience and will not be 
converted to such.
  
19. Non-discrimination 
In  performing  the  services  subject  to  this  RFP  the  vendor,  as  set  forth  in  Title  19  
Delaware Code Chapter 7 section 711, will agree that it will not discriminate against any 
employee or applicant with respect to compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of 
employment  because  of  such  individual's  race,  marital  status,  genetic  information,  
color,  age,  religion,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  or  national  origin.    The  
successful vendor shall comply with all federal and state laws, regulations and policies 
pertaining to the prevention of discriminatory employment practice.  Failure to perform 
under this provision constitutes a material breach of contract. 
20. Covenant against Contingent Fees 
The  successful  vendor  will  warrant  that  no  person  or  selling  agency  has  been  
employed  or  retained  to  solicit  or  secure  this  contract  upon  an  agreement  of  
understanding for a commission or percentage, brokerage or contingent fee excepting 
bona-fide   employees,   bona-fide   established   commercial   or   selling   agencies   
maintained by the Vendor for the purpose of securing business.  For breach or violation 
of this warranty the State of Delaware shall have the right to annul the contract without 
liability or at its discretion to deduct from the contract price or otherwise recover the 
full amount of such commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee. 
21. Vendor Activity 
No activity is to be executed in an offshore facility, either by a subcontracted firm or a 
foreign  office  or  division  of  the  vendor.    The  vendor  must  attest  to  the  fact  that  no  
activity will take place outside of the United States in its transmittal letter.  Failure to 
adhere to this requirement is cause for elimination from future consideration. 
22. Vendor Responsibility 
The  State  will  enter  into  a  contract  with  the  successful  Vendor(s).    The  successful  
Vendor(s) shall be responsible for all products and services as required by this RFP 
whether or not the Vendor or its subcontractor provided final fulfillment of the order.  
Subcontractors,  if  any,  shall  be  clearly  identified  in  the  Vendor’s  proposal  by  
completing   Attachment   7,   and   are   subject   the   approval   and   acceptance   of   
Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS) Division of Public Health. 
23. Personnel, Equipment and Services 
a.   The Vendor represents that it has, or will secure at its own expense, all personnel 
required to perform the services required under this contract. 
b.   All  of  the  equipment  and  services  required  hereunder  shall  be  provided  by  or  
performed  by  the  Vendor  or  under  its  direct  supervision,  and  all  personnel,  
including subcontractors, engaged in the work shall be fully qualified and shall be 
authorized under State and local law to perform such services. 
c.   None  of  the  equipment  and/or  services  covered  by  this  contract  shall  be  
subcontracted   without   the   prior   written   approval   of   the   State.   Only   those   
subcontractors identified  in  Attachment  7  are  considered  approved  upon  award.  
Changes  to  those  subcontractor(s)  listed  in  Attachment  7  must  be  approved  in  
writing by the State. 


---PAGE_28---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 28 
24. Fair Background Check Practices 
Pursuant to 29 Del. C. § 6909B, the State does not consider the criminal record, criminal 
history, credit history or credit score of an applicant for state employment during the initial 
application process unless otherwise required by state and/or federal law.  Vendors doing 
business  with  the  State  are  encouraged  to  adopt  fair  background  check  practices.  
Vendors can refer to 19 Del. C. § 711(g) for applicable established provisions. 
25. Vendor Background Check Requirements 
Vendor(s)  selected  for  an  award  that  access  state  property  or  come  in  contact  with  
vulnerable  populations,  including  children  and  youth,  shall  be  required  to  complete  
background checks on employees serving the State’s on premises contracts.  Unless 
otherwise directed, at a minimum, this shall include a check of the following registry: 
 Delaware Sex Offender Central Registry at:  
 https://sexoffender.dsp.delaware.gov
/            
 
Individuals that are listed in the registry shall be prevented from direct contact in the 
service  of  an  awarded  state  contract  but  may  provide  support  or  off-site  premises  
service  for  contract  vendors.  Should  an  individual  be  identified  and  the  Vendor(s)  
believes their employee’s service does not represent a conflict with this requirement, 
may apply for a waiver to the primary agency listed in the solicitation. The Agency’s 
decision to allow or deny access to any individual identified on a registry database is 
final and at the Agency’s sole discretion.  
 
By  Agency  request,  the  Vendor(s)  shall  provide  a  list  of  all  employees  serving  an  
awarded contract  and  certify  adherence  to  the  background  check  requirement.    
Individual(s)  found  in  the  central  registry  in  violation  of  the  terms  stated,  shall  be  
immediately prevented from a return to state property in service of a contract award.  
A violation of this condition represents a violation of the contract terms and conditions, 
and may subject the Vendor to penalty, including contract cancellation for cause.  
 
Individual  contracts  may  require  additional  background  checks  and/or  security  
clearance(s),  depending  on  the  nature  of  the  services  to  be  provided  or  locations  
accessed, but any other requirements shall be stated in the contract scope of work or 
be a matter of common law.  The Vendor(s) shall be responsible for the background 
check requirements of any authorized Subcontractor providing service to the Agency’s 
contract. 
26. Drug Testing Requirements for Large Public Works 
Pursuant to 29 Del.C. §6908(a)(6), effective as of January 1, 2016, OMB has established 
regulations  that  require  Contractors  and  Subcontractors  to  implement  a  program  of  
mandatory  drug  testing  for  Employees  who  work  on  Large  Public  Works  Contracts  
funded  all  or  in  part  with  public  funds.  The  regulations  establish  the  mechanism,  
standards  and  requirements  of  a  Mandatory  Drug  Testing  Program  that  will  be 
incorporated by reference into all Large Public Works Contracts awarded pursuant to 29 
Del.C. §6962. 
 
Final publication of the identified regulations can be found at the following: 
4104  Regulations  for  the  Drug  Testing  of  Contractor  and  Subcontractor  Employees  
Working on Large Public Works Projects 


---PAGE_29---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 29 
27. Work Product 
All materials and products developed under the executed contract by the vendor are 
the sole and exclusive property of the State.  The vendor will seek written permission 
to use any product created under the contract. 
28. Contract Documents 
The RFP, the purchase order, the executed contract and any supplemental documents 
between the State of Delaware and the successful vendor shall constitute the contract 
between the State of Delaware and the vendor.  In the event there is any discrepancy 
between any of these contract documents, the following order of documents governs 
so that the former prevails over the latter: contract, State of Delaware’s RFP, Vendor’s 
response to the RFP and purchase order.  No other documents shall be considered.  
These documents will constitute the entire agreement between the State of Delaware 
and the vendor. 
29. Applicable Law 
The  laws  of  the  State  of  Delaware  shall  apply,  except  where  Federal  Law  has  
precedence.  The successful vendor consents to jurisdiction and venue in the State of 
Delaware. 
 
In submitting a proposal, Vendors certify that they comply with all federal, state and 
local laws applicable to their activities and obligations including: 
 
a.   the laws of the State of Delaware; 
b.   the applicable portion of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964; 
c.   the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the regulations issued there under by 
the federal government; 
d.   a  condition  that  the  proposal  submitted  was  independently  arrived  at,  without  
collusion, under penalty of perjury; and 
e.   that  programs,  services,  and  activities  provided  to  the  general  public  under  
resulting contract conform with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the 
regulations issued there under by the federal government. 
 
If any vendor fails to comply with 
a through e (noted above) of this paragraph, the 
State of Delaware reserves the right to disregard the proposal, terminate the contract, 
or consider the vendor in default. 
 
The selected vendor shall keep itself fully informed of and shall observe and comply 
with all applicable existing Federal and State laws, and County and local ordinances, 
regulations and codes, and those laws, ordinances, regulations, and codes adopted 
during its performance of the work. 
30. Severability 
If any term or provision of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction 
to  be  invalid,  illegal  or  otherwise  unenforceable,  the  same  shall  not  affect  the  other  
terms or provisions hereof or the whole of this Agreement, but such term or provision 
shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary in the court's opinion to render such 
term  or  provision  enforceable,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  shall  be  
construed  and  enforced  accordingly,  preserving  to  the  fullest  permissible  extent  the  
intent and agreements of the parties herein set forth. 


---PAGE_30---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 30 
31. Assignment of Antitrust Claims 
As consideration for the award and execution of this contract by the State, the Vendor 
hereby grants, conveys, sells, assigns, and transfers to the State of Delaware all of its 
right, title and interest in and to all known or unknown causes of action it presently has 
or may now or hereafter acquire under the antitrust laws of the United States and the 
State of Delaware, regarding the specific goods or services purchased or acquired for 
the State pursuant to this contract.  Upon either the State’s or the Vendor notice of the 
filing  of  or  reasonable  likelihood  of  filing  of  an  action  under  the  antitrust  laws  of  the  
United States or the State of Delaware, the State and Vendor shall meet and confer 
about coordination of representation in such action. 
32. Scope of Agreement 
If  the  scope  of  any  provision  of  the  contract  is  determined  to  be  too  broad  in  any  
respect whatsoever to permit enforcement to its full extent, then such provision shall 
be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the parties hereto consent 
and agree that such scope may be judicially modified accordingly and that the whole 
of such provisions of the contract shall not thereby fail, but the scope of such provisions 
shall be curtailed only to the extent necessary to conform to the law. 
33. Affirmation 
The  Vendor  must  affirm  that  within  the  past  five  (5)  years  the  firm  or  any  officer,  
controlling stockholder, partner, principal, or other person substantially involved in the 
contracting activities of the business is not currently suspended or debarred and is not 
a successor, subsidiary, or affiliate of a suspended or debarred business. 
VI. Access to Records 
The Vendor shall maintain books, records, documents, and other evidence pertaining 
to this Contract to the extent and in such detail as shall adequately reflect performance 
hereunder.    The  Vendor  agrees  to  preserve  and  make  available  to  the  State,  upon  
request,  such  records  for  a  period  of  five  (5)  years  from  the  date  services  were  
rendered by the Vendor.  Records involving matters in litigation shall be retained for 
one (1) year following the termination of such litigation.  The Vendor agrees to make 
such records  available  for  inspection,  audit,  or  reproduction  to  any  official  State  
representative  in  the  performance  of  their  duties  under  the  Contract.    Upon  notice  
given  to  the  Vendor,  representatives  of  the  State  or  other  duly  authorized  State  or  
Federal agency may inspect, monitor, and/or evaluate the cost and billing records or 
other material related to this Contract.  The cost of any Contract audit disallowances 
resulting from the examination of the Vendor's financial records will be borne by the 
Vendor.   Reimbursement  to  the  State  for  disallowances  shall  be  drawn  from  the  
Vendor's  own  resources  and  not  charged  to  Contract  cost  or  cost  pools  indirectly  
charging Contract costs. 
8.   IRS 1075 Publication (If Applicable)  
a. Performance 
 
In performance of this contract, the Contractor agrees to comply with and assume 
responsibility   for   compliance   by   officers   or   employees   with   the   following   
requirements:  
 
(1) All work will be performed under the supervision of the contractor.  


---PAGE_31---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 31 
(2) The contractor and contractor’s officers or employees to be authorized access 
to FTI must meet background check requirements defined in IRS Publication 
1075. The contractor will maintain a list of officers or employees authorized 
access to FTI. Such list will be provided to the agency and, upon request, to 
the IRS.  
(3)  FTI  in  hardcopy  or  electronic  format  shall  be  used  only  for  the  purpose  of  
carrying out the provisions of this contract. FTI in any format shall be treated 
as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to 
any person except as may be necessary in the performance of this contract. 
Inspection  or  disclosure  of  FTI  to  anyone  other  than  the  contractor  or  the  
contractor’s officers or employees authorized is prohibited.  
(4) FTI will be accounted for upon receipt and properly stored before, during, and 
after  processing.  In  addition,  any  related  output  and  products  require  the  
same level of protection as required for the source material.  
(5)  The  contractor  will  certify  that  FTI  processed  during  the  performance  of  this  
contract  will  be  completely  purged  from  all  physical  and  electronic  data  
storage with no output to be retained by the contractor at the time the work 
is completed. If immediate purging of physical and electronic data storage is 
not possible, the contractor will certify that any FTI in physical or electronic 
storage will remain safeguarded to prevent unauthorized disclosures.  
(6) Any spoilage or any intermediate hard copy printout that may result during the 
processing of FTI will be given to the agency. When this is not possible, the 
contractor  will  be  responsible  for  the  destruction  of  the  spoilage  or  any  
intermediate hard copy printouts and will provide the agency with a statement 
containing the date of destruction, description of material destroyed, and the 
destruction method.  
(7) All computer systems receiving, processing, storing, or transmitting FTI must 
meet  the  requirements  in  IRS  Publication  1075.  To  meet  functional  and  
assurance  requirements,  the  security  features  of  the  environment  must  
provide for the managerial, operational,  and  technical  controls.  All  security  
features must be available and activated to protect against unauthorized use 
of and access to FTI.  
(8)  No  work  involving  FTI  furnished  under  this  contract  will  be  subcontracted  
without the prior written approval of the IRS.  
(9) Contractor will ensure that the terms of FTI safeguards described herein are 
included,   without   modification,   in   any   approved   subcontract   for   work   
involving FTI.  
(10) To the extent the terms, provisions, duties, requirements, and obligations of 
this  contract  apply  to  performing  services  with  FTI,  the  contractor  shall  
assume toward the subcontractor all obligations, duties and responsibilities 
that the agency under this contract assumes toward the contractor, and the 
subcontractor shall assume toward the contractor all the same obligations, 
duties and responsibilities which the contractor assumes toward the agency 
under this contract.  
(11) In addition to the subcontractor’s obligations and duties under an approved 
subcontract,   the   terms   and   conditions   of   this   contract   apply   to   the   
subcontractor, and the subcontractor is bound and obligated to the contractor 
hereunder  by  the  same  terms  and  conditions  by  which  the  contractor  is  
bound and 202 obligated to the agency under this contract. 
 (12)  For  purposes  of  this  contract,  the  term  “contractor”  includes  any  officer  or  
employee  of  the  contractor  with  access  to  or  who  uses  FTI,  and  the  term  


---PAGE_32---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 32 
“subcontractor”  includes  any  officer  or  employee  of  the  subcontractor  with  
access to or who uses FTI.  
(13) The agency will have the right to void the contract if the contractor fails to meet 
the terms of FTI safeguards described herein. 
 
b. Criminal/Civil Sanctions  
 
(1) Each officer or employee of a contractor to whom FTI is or may be disclosed 
shall be notified in writing that FTI disclosed to such officer or employee can 
be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further 
disclosure of any FTI for a purpose not authorized herein constitutes a felony 
punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $5,000 or imprisonment for 
as long as 5 years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  
(2) Each officer or employee of a contractor to whom FTI is or may be accessible 
shall be notified in writing that FTI accessible to such officer or employee may 
be accessed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that 
access/inspection of  FTI  without  an  official  need-to-know  for  a  purpose  not  
authorized   herein   constitutes   a   criminal   misdemeanor   punishable   upon   
conviction  by  a  fine  of  as  much  as  $1,000  or  imprisonment  for  as  long  as  1  
year, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  
(3) Each officer or employee of a contractor to whom FTI is or may be disclosed 
shall  be  notified  in  writing  that  any  such  unauthorized  access,  inspection  or  
disclosure  of  FTI  may  also  result  in  an  award  of  civil  damages  against  the  
officer or employee in an amount equal to the sum of the greater of $1,000 for 
each  unauthorized  access,  inspection,  or  disclosure,  or  the  sum  of  actual  
damages  sustained  as  a  result  of  such  unauthorized  access,  inspection,  or  
disclosure,  plus  in  the  case  of  a  willful  unauthorized  access,  inspection,  or  
disclosure  or  an  unauthorized  access/inspection  or  disclosure  which  is  the  
result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the cost of the action. These 
penalties are prescribed by IRC sections 7213, 7213A and 7431 and set forth 
at 26 CFR 301.6103(n)-1.     
 
Additionally,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  contractor  to  inform  its  officers  and  
employees of the penalties for improper disclosure imposed by the Privacy Act 
of  1974,  5  U.S.C.  552a.  Specifically,  5  U.S.C.  552a(i)(1),  which  is  made  
applicable to contractors by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1), provides that any officer or 
employee  of  a  contractor,  who  by  virtue  of  his/her  employment  or  official  
position,  has  possession  of  or  access  to  agency  records  which  contain  
individually identifiable information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by the 
Privacy  Act  or  regulations  established  thereunder,  and  who  knowing  that  
disclosure  of  the  specific  material  is  so  prohibited,  willfully  discloses  the  
material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall 
be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.  
(4)  Granting a contractor access to FTI must be preceded by certifying that each 
officer or employee understands the agency’s security policy and procedures 
for safeguarding FTI. A contractor and each officer or employee must maintain 
their  authorization  to  access  FTI  through  annual  recertification  of  their  
understanding of the agency’s security policy and procedures for safeguarding 
FTI.  The  initial  certification  and  recertifications  must  be  documented  and  
placed in the agency's files for review. As part of the certification and at least 
annually  afterwards,  a  contractor  and  each  officer  or  employee  must  be  


---PAGE_33---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 33 
advised of the provisions of IRC sections 7213, 7213A, and 7431 (see Exhibit 
4,  Sanctions  for  Unauthorized  Disclosure,  and  Exhibit  5,  Civil  Damages  for  
Unauthorized  Disclosure).  The  training  on  the  agency’s  security  policy  and  
procedures provided before the initial certification and annually thereafter must 
also   cover   the   incident   response   policy   and   procedure   for   reporting   
unauthorized disclosures and data breaches. (See Section 10) For the initial 
certification and the annual recertifications, the contractor and each officer or 
employee  must  sign,  either  with  ink  or  electronic  signature,  a  confidentiality  
statement certifying their understanding of the security requirements. 
 
c. Inspection  
The IRS and the Agency, with 24
-hour notice, shall have the right to send its 
inspectors into the offices and plants of the contractor to inspect facilities and 
operations  performing  any  work  with  FTI  under  this  contract  for  compliance  
with requirements defined in IRS Publication 1075. The IRS’ right of inspection 
shall  include  the  use  of  manual  and/or  automated  scanning  tools  to  perform  
compliance  and  vulnerability  assessments  of  information  technology  (IT)  
assets  that  access,  store,  process  or  transmit  FTI.  Based  on  the  inspection,  
corrective actions may be required in cases where the contractor is found to 
be noncompliant with FTI safeguard requirements. 
9.   Other General Conditions 
a. Current Version – “Packaged” application and system software shall be the most 
current version generally available as of the date of the physical installation of the 
software. 
b. Current   Manufacture –   Equipment   specified   and/or   furnished   under   this   
specification shall be standard products of manufacturers regularly engaged in the 
production of such equipment and shall be the manufacturer’s latest design.  All 
material and equipment offered shall be new and unused. 
c. Volumes and Quantities – Activity volume estimates and other quantities have 
been  reviewed  for  accuracy;  however,  they  may  be  subject  to  change  prior  or  
subsequent to award of the contract. 
d. Prior  Use –  The  State  of  Delaware  reserves  the  right  to  use  equipment  and  
material  furnished  under  this  proposal  prior  to  final  acceptance.    Such  use  shall  
not constitute acceptance of the work or any part thereof by the State of Delaware. 
e. Status Reporting – The selected vendor will be required to lead and/or participate 
in status meetings and submit status reports covering such items as progress of 
work   being   performed,   milestones   attained,   resources   expended,   problems   
encountered
, and corrective action taken, until final system acceptance. 
f. Regulations – All equipment, software and services must meet all applicable local, 
State and Federal regulations in effect on the date of the contract. 
g. Assignment – Any resulting contract shall not be assigned except by express prior 
written consent from the Agency. 
h. Changes –  No  alterations  in  any  terms,  conditions,  delivery,  price,  quality,  or  
specifications of items ordered will be effective without the written consent of the 
State of Delaware. 
i. Billing – The successful vendor is required to "Bill as Shipped" to the respective 
ordering agency(s).  Ordering agencies shall provide contract number, ship to and 
bill to address, contact name and phone number. 


---PAGE_34---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 34 
j. Payment –  The  State  reserves  the  right  to  pay  by  Automated  Clearing  House  
(ACH)  or  Purchase  Card  (P-Card).    The  agencies  will  authorize  and  process  for  
payment of each invoice within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of a correct 
invoice.    Vendors  are  invited  to  offer  in  their  proposal  value  added  discounts  (i.e.  
speed  to  pay  discounts  for  specific  payment  terms).    Cash  or  separate  discounts  
should be computed and incorporated as invoiced. 
k. W-9 
–  The  State  of  Delaware  requires  a  new  vendor  to  complete  the  registration  
process          through          the          Delaware          Supplier          Portal          at          
http://esupplier.erp.delaware.gov.      Successful  completion  of  this  registration  
enables the creation of a State of Delaware supplier record.  The Taxpayer ID (SSN 
or EIN) and Applicant (supplier) name are submitted to the Internal Revenue Service 
for “matching”.
  If the Taxpayer ID and name do not match, the vendor record cannot 
be approved. 
It is the applicant’s responsibility to select the appropriate 1099 Withholding Type and 
Class. If incorporated, a business is not subject to 1099 reporting unless the business 
is providing legal or medical services. 
Any  questions  about  completing  this  registration  or  specific  comments  about  the  
registration, please contact supplier maintenance by phone at 302-672-5000 
l. Purchase  Orders  –
   Agencies  that  are  part  of  the  First  State  Financial  (FSF)  
system are required to identify the contract number  HSS 28 001  on all Purchase 
Orders (P.O.) and shall complete the same when entering P.O. information in the 
state’s financial reporting system. 
m. Purchase Card – The State of Delaware intends to maximize the use of the P-
Card for payment for goods and services provided under contract.  Vendors shall 
not charge additional fees for acceptance of this payment method and shall 
incorporate any costs into their proposals.  Additionally, there shall be no 
minimum or maximum limits on any P-Card transaction under the contract.   
n. Additional Terms and Conditions – The State of Delaware reserves the right to 
add terms and conditions during the contract negotiations. 
 
VII.    RFP Miscellaneous Information 
 
A. No Press Releases or Public Disclosure 
The  State  of  Delaware  reserves  the  right  to  pre-approve  any  news  or  broadcast  
advertising  releases  concerning  this  solicitation,  the  resulting  contract,  the  work  
performed,  or  any  reference  to  the  State  of  Delaware  with  regard  to  any  project  or  
contract  performance.    Any  such  news  or  advertising  releases  pertaining  to  this  
solicitation  or  resulting  contract  shall  require  the  prior  express  written  permission  of  
the State of Delaware. 
 
The  State  will  not  prohibit  or  otherwise  prevent  the  awarded  vendor(s)  from  direct  
marketing to the State of Delaware agencies, departments, municipalities, and/or any 
other political subdivisions, however, the Vendor shall not use the State’s seal or imply 
preference for the solution or goods provided. 
 
B. Definitions of Requirements 
To  prevent  any  confusion  about  identifying  requirements  in  this  RFP,  the  following  
definition  is  offered:    The  words  shall,  will  and/or  must  are  used  to  designate  a  
mandatory  requirement.    Vendors  must  respond  to  all  mandatory  requirements  


---PAGE_35---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 35 
presented in the RFP.  Failure to respond to a mandatory requirement may cause the 
disqualification of your proposal. 
 
C. Production Environment Requirements 
The  State  of  Delaware  requires  that  all  hardware,  system  software  products,  and  
application software products included in proposals be currently in use in a production 
environment  by  at  least  three  other  customers,  have  been  in  use  for  at  least  six  
months, and have been generally available from the manufacturers for a period of six 
months.  Unreleased or beta test hardware, system software, or application software 
will not be acceptable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


---PAGE_36---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 36 
VIII.   Attachments 
 
The following attachments and appendices shall be considered part of the solicitation: 
 
• Attachment 1 – No Proposal Reply Form 
• Attachment 2 – Vendor Information Form (refer to Appendix C) 
• Attachment 3 – Non-Collusion Statement (refer to Appendix C) 
• Attachment 4 – Exceptions (refer to Appendix C) 
• Attachment 5 – Confidentiality & Proprietary Information (refer to Appendix C) 
• Attachment 6 – Business References (refer to Appendix C) 
• Attachment 8 – Monthly Usage Report 
• Attachment 9 – Subcontracting (2
nd
 Tier Spend) Report 
• Attachment 10 – Office of Supplier Diversity Application 
• Appendix A – Minimum Response Requirements 
• Appendix B – Scope of Work / Technical Requirements 
• Appendix C – Forms 
o    Vendor Information Form (Attachment 2) 
o    Non-Collusion Statement (Attachment 3) 
o    Exception Form (Attachment 4) 
o    Confidentiality Form (Attachment 5) 
o    Business References (Attachment 6) 
o    Subcontractor Information Form (Attachment 7), if applicable 
• Appendix D – Templates/Sample Agreements 
o    Professional Services Agreement 
o    Business Associate Agreement 
o DTI Terms & Conditions  
• Appendix E – Workplan Template 
• Appendix F – Project Cost Template 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[balance of page is intentionally left blank]


---PAGE_37---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 37 
IMPORTANT – PLEASE NOTE 
 
• Attachments 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 must be included in your proposal 
 
• Attachment 7 must be included in your proposal if subcontractors will be involved 
 
• Attachments 8  and 9  represent  required  reporting  on  the  part  of  awarded  vendors.  Those  
bidders receiving an award will be provided with active spreadsheets for reporting.
 
 
REQUIRED REPORTING 
 
One of the primary goals in administering this contract is to keep accurate records regarding its 
actual value/usage.  This information is essential in order to update the contents of the contract 
and  to  establish  proper  bonding  levels  if  they  are  required.    The  integrity  of  future  contracts  
revolves around our ability to convey accurate and realistic information to all interested parties. 
 
A complete and accurate Usage Report (Attachment 8) shall be furnished in an Excel format 
and submitted electronically, no later than the 15th (or next business day after the 15th day) 
of  each  month,  detailing  the  purchasing  of  all  items  and/or  services  on  this  contract.  The  
reports shall be completed in Excel format, using the template provided, and submitted as an 
attachment to Candi Biles DHSS_DPH_HealthFund@delaware.gov
, with a copy going to the 
contract officer identified as your point of contact. Submitted reports shall cover the full month 
(Report  due  by  January  15
th
  will  cover  the  period  of  December  1  –  31.),  contain  accurate  
descriptions  of  the  products,  goods  or  services  procured,  purchasing  agency  information,  
quantities procured
, and prices paid. Reports are required monthly, including those with “no 
spend”. Any exception to this mandatory requirement or failure to submit complete reports, or 
in  the  format  required,  may  result  in  corrective  action,  up  to  and  including  the  possible 
cancellation of the award. Failure to provide the report with the minimum required information 
may also negate any contract extension clauses. Additionally, Vendors who are determined 
to  be  in  default  of  this  mandatory  report  requirement  may  have  such  conduct  considered  
against them, in assessment of responsibility, in the evaluation of future proposals. 
 
 
Reporting is required by Executive Order. 
 
In  accordance  with  Executive  Order  49,  the  State  of  Delaware  is  committed  to  supporting  its  
diverse business industry and population.  The successful Vendor will be required to accurately 
report on the participation by Diversity Suppliers which includes minority (MBE), woman (WBE), 
veteran owned business (VOBE), or service
-disabled veteran owned business (SDVOBE) under 
this awarded contract.  The reported data elements shall include but not be limited to; name of 
state contract/project, the name of the Diversity Supplier, Diversity Supplier contact information 
(phone, email), type of product or service provided by the Diversity Supplier and any minority, 
women,  veteran,  or  service
-disabled  veteran  certifications  for  the  subcontractor  (State  OSD  
certification,  Minority  Supplier  Development  Council,  Women’s  Business  Enterprise  Council,  
VetBiz.gov).  The format used for Subcontracting 2
nd
 Tier report is shown as in Attachment 9. 
 
Accurate 2nd Tier reports shall be submitted to the contracting Agency’s contract manager on 
the 15th (or next business day) of the month following each quarterly period.  For consistency 
quarters shall be considered to end the last day of March, June, September and December of 
each calendar year. Contract spend during the covered periods shall result in a report even if the 
contract has expired by the report due date.
 


---PAGE_38---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[balance of page is intentionally left blank] 
  


---PAGE_39---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 39 
 Attachment 1 
 
NO PROPOSAL REPLY FORM 
 
Contract No. HSS-28 001 
Title: Delaware Health Fund – FY 2028 Health Programs and Services 
 
 
To assist us in obtaining good competition on our Request for Proposals, we ask that each firm that 
has received a proposal, but does not wish to bid, state their reason(s) below and return in a clearly 
marked envelope displaying the contract number.  This information will not preclude receipt of future 
invitations unless you request removal from the Vendor's List by so indicating below, or do not return 
this form or bona fide proposal. 
 
Unfortunately, we must offer a "No Proposal" at this time because: 
    
            1. We do not wish to participate in the bid process. 
 
            2. We do not wish to bid under the terms and conditions of the Request for Proposal 
document.  Our objections are:                                                                                    
 
             
 
            3. We do not feel we can be competitive. 
 
            4. We cannot submit a proposal because of the marketing or franchising policies of the 
manufacturing company. 
 
            5. We do not wish to sell to the State.  Our objections are:        
 
                                                                                                                                   
 
            6. We do not sell the items/services on which proposals are requested. 
 
            7.  Other:            
 
_______________________________
 ______________________________ 
FIRM NAME
         SIGNATURE 
 
________ 
We wish to remain on the Vendor's List for these goods or services. 
 
________ We wish to be deleted from the Vendor's List for these goods or services
. 
 
PLEASE FORWARD NO PROPOSAL REPLY FORM TO THE CONTRACT OFFICER IDENTIFIED.


---PAGE_40---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
40 
Attachment 2 to Attachment 7  
 
Contained in Appendix C under a separate file. 
 
• Vendor Information Sheet (Attachment 2) 
 
• Non-Collusion Statement (Attachment 3) 
 
• Exceptions Form (Attachment 4) 
 
• Confidential Information Form (Attachment 5) 
 
• Business References (Attachment 6) 
 
• Subcontractor Form (Attachment 7), if applicable 
 
 
 
 
Please go to Appendix C for a separate file for these Attachments: 
 
“HSS-28 001– AppC-Vendor Frms.xlsx”


---PAGE_41---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
41 
Attachment 8 
STATE OF DELAWARE 
MONTHLY USAGE REPORT 
 
SAMPLE REPORT - FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY 
 
 
 
Note:  A copy of the Usage Report will be sent by electronic mail to the Awarded Vendor.  The report shall be submitted electronically 
in EXCEL and sent as an attachment to DHSS_DPH_HealthFund@delaware.gov.   
 
It shall contain the six-digit department and organization code for each agency and school district. 


---PAGE_42---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
42 
Attachment 9 
 
SAMPLE REPORT - FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY 
 
 
Note:  Completed reports shall be saved in an Excel format and submitted to the following email address: osd@delaware.gov . The 
form can be located at Office of Supplier Diversity - Division of Small Business - State of Delaware, bottom of the page, ‘Services and 
Information’ section, ‘Subcontractor Reporting Form’. 


---PAGE_43---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
43 
Attachment 10 
 
 
The Office of Supplier Diversity (OSD)  
 
Supplier Diversity Certification Application Portal can be found here: 
Office of Suppler Diversity Certification Application Portal 
 
 
For more information, please send an email to OSD: 
osd@delaware.gov or call 302-577-8477 
 
Subscribe to the OSD Mailing List 
 
Carvel State Building 
820 N. French Street, 10
th
 Floor 
Wilmington, DE  19801 
 
Telephone: 302-577-8477 / Fax: 302-736-7915 
Email: osd@delaware.gov 
Web site: https://business.delaware.gov/osd/ 
 
 
 
*Submission of a completed Office of Supplier Diversity (OSD) application is optional and 
does not influence the outcome of any award decision.  
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                   
  


---PAGE_44---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
44 
APPENDIX A 
MINIMUM MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS 
 
Each vendor solicitation response should contain at a minimum the following information: 
 
1.   Transmittal Letter as specified on page two (2) of the Request for Proposal including an 
Applicant's experience, if any, providing similar services. 
 
2.   The  proposal  package  shall  identify  how  the  vendor  proposes  meeting  the  contract  
requirements and shall include pricing.  Vendors are encouraged to review the Evaluation 
criteria identified to see how the proposals will be scored and verify that the response has 
sufficient documentation to support each criteria listed. 
 
3.   Pricing as identified in the solicitation.  Please submit your pricing/cost noted in Appendix 
F – Project Cost Template. 
 
4.   One (1) completed Vendor information Sheet (See Attachment 2 – in Appendix C). 
 
5.   One (1) complete and signed Non-collusion agreement (See Attachment 3 – in Appendix 
C)).   
 
6.   One (1) completed RFP Exception form (See Attachment 4 – in Appendix C) – please 
check box if no information – Form must be included. 
 
7.   One (1) completed Confidentiality Form (See Attachment 5 – in Appendix C) – please 
check if no information is deemed confidential – Form must be included. 
 
8.   One (1) completed Business Reference form (See Attachment 6 – in Appendix C)) – 
please provide references other than State of Delaware contacts – Form must be 
included. 
 
9.   One (1) complete and signed copy of the Subcontractor Information Form (See 
Attachment 7 – in Appendix C)) for each subcontractor – only provide if applicable. 
 
10. Completed the Appendix E - Sample Workplan Template. 
 
The items listed above provide the basis for evaluating each vendor’s proposal.  Failure to provide all 
appropriate information may deem the submitting vendor as “non-responsive” and exclude the 
vendor  from  further  consideration.      If  an  item  listed  above  is  not  applicable  to  your  company  or  
proposal, please make note in your submission package.  
 
Vendors shall provide proposal packages in the following formats: 
 
1.   Proposals shall be submitted online at https://dhss.bonfirehub.com/ 


---PAGE_45---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
45 
APPENDIX B   
SCOPE OF WORK AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[balance of page is intentionally left blank]


---PAGE_46---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
46 
 
APPENDIX C 
 
REQUIRED FORMS 
 
Please refer to separate file: 
“HSS-28 001 –   AppC–Vendor Frms.xlsx” 
 
 
• Vendor Information Sheet (Attachment 2) 
 
• Non-Collusion Statement (Attachment 3) 
 
• Exceptions Form (Attachment 4) 
 
• Confidential Information Form (Attachment 5) 
 
• Business References (Attachment 6) 
 
• Subcontractor Form, (Attachment 7), if applicable 
 
 


---PAGE_47---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
47 
APPENDIX D 
 
Templates/Sample Agreements 
 
These Templates/Sample Agreements will be used to negotiate the final version of the 
Contract between Vendor and the State of Delaware. 
 
 
Please refer to separate file: 
“HSS-28 001 -  AppD–Templates-PSA, BAA and DTI T&Cs.docx” 
 
 
• Professional Service Agreement 
• Business Associate Agreement 
• DTI Terms & Conditions 
  


---PAGE_48---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
48 
APPENDIX E 
 
WORKPLAN TEMPLATE 
 
 
Please refer to separate file: 
“HSS-28 001 -  AppE–Workplan Template.docx” 
  


---PAGE_49---
STATE OF DELAWARE 
DIVISON OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
 
49 
APPENDIX F 
 
BUDGET WORKBOOK/PROJECT COST TEMPLATE 
 
 
Please refer to Appendix B. Proposal Requirement [enter needed information]  
for how to submit your Cost/Pricing. 
 
 
 
Please refer to separate file: 
“HSS-28 001 -  AppF–Proj Cost Template.docx/xlsx” 
 
Or 
 
“HSS-28 001 -  AppF–Budget Workbook.docx.xlsx” 
 