


---PAGE_1---
 
 
 
 
 
 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning 
Project 
 
 
 
 
 
Date Released: December 19, 2025 
 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County 
555 County Center, 5
th
 Floor, Redwood City, CA 94063 
 
Deadline for Requests for Clarifications: January 9, 2026 
 
Proposals are due: January 23, 2026, 12:00PM PST 
  


---PAGE_2---
   
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
I. INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................................................1 
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND BACKGROUND ........................................................2 
III. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS ......................................................................................3 
IV. PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................................4 
V. PROPOSAL EVALUATION .......................................................................................... 11 
APPENDIX A - SCOPE OF WORK ...................................................................................... 16 
APPENDIX B – GRANT AGREEMENT UNDER FISCAL YEAR 2024 SAFE STREETS 
FOR ALL GRANT PROGRAM ............................................................................................ 20 
APPENDIX C – COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE ............................................................... 21 
APPENDIX D – SAMPLE AGREEMENT TEMPLATE ..................................................... 22 
 


---PAGE_3---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
1 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
The City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG), a Joint Powers 
Agency composed of the County of San Mateo and all twenty cities located within San Mateo 
County, invites qualified consultants to submit proposals for San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for 
All Supplemental Planning Project, which is funded through the U.S. Department of Transportation 
(USDOT) Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Grant Program. To be considered for this work, proposers must 
submit a proposal in accordance with the requirements, specifications, and scope of work provided in 
this Request for Proposals (RFP). 
The San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project will provide the 
additional planning needed to advance and refine the strategies outlined in the adopted Countywide 
Local Roadway Safety Plan. This effort will enhance coordination across jurisdictions, improve 
roadway safety outcomes, and address emerging transportation needs particularly those related to e-
bike use and multimodal travel. 
This RFP briefly describes the C/CAG organization, its programs, relevant needs and services 
required from consultant, the minimum information needed to respond to the RFP, and the 
consultant selection process.  
This RFP is not a commitment or contract of any kind. C/CAG reserves the right to pursue any 
and/or all ideas generated by this request. Costs for developing the proposals are entirely the 
responsibility of the proposer and will not be reimbursed. C/CAG reserves the right to reject any 
and all proposals, waive minor irregularities, request additional information, or revisions to 
offers, negotiate with any or all proposers, and waive any requirements of this RFP when it 
determines that waiving a requirement is in the best interest of C/CAG.  
Attachments to this RFP include: Scope of Work (Appendix A), Grant Agreement Under Fiscal 
Year 2024 Safe Streets for All Grant Program (Appendix B), Cost Proposal Template (Appendix 
C), and Sample Template Agreement (Appendix D). 
The anticipated contract term will be approximately 48 months.  RFP documents for this project 
are available for download on the C/CAG website at https://ccag.ca.gov/opportunities/rfpsrfqs/. 
Proposers are responsible for checking the website for any addenda to this RFP. Responses 
should be submitted in accordance with the instructions set forth in the RFP. 
Proposals must be received by C/CAG no later than 12 PM PST on Friday, January 23, 2026, in 
accordance  with  the  instructions  contained  in  the  RFP. Proposals  should  be  emailed  with  the 
subject line “RFP – San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project” 
to: Eva Gaye (egaye@smcgov.org). 
Proposals received after the time and date specified above may be considered nonresponsive. 
C/CAG is not responsible for submissions delayed for any reason.  


---PAGE_4---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
2 
 
 
Tentative Schedule  
Date Description 
Friday, December 19, 2025 Release RFP 
Friday, January 9, 2026 Question and Answer Deadline 
12:00 PM PST, Friday, January 23, 2026 RFP Proposals Due 
Week of February 16, 2026 Consultant Interviews 
Thursday, March 12, 2026 C/CAG Board approval 
Monday, March 16, 2026 Notice to Proceed and Project Kick-off 
 
Anticipated Term and Budget 
The San Mateo County Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project will be funded through 
the Safe Streets For All (SS4A ) Grant program using funds from the United States Department of 
Transportation (U.S. DOT) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and will be subject to all 
applicable FHWA-required federal provisions and certifications (see Grant Agreement attached as 
Appendix B.) C/CAG has budgeted four hundred thirty-three thousand, one hundred forty-one 
dollars ($433,171) for this effort. C/CAG expects the work to commence on April 1, 2026 and to 
be completed no later than June 2030. Any contract entered into as a result of this RFP will be 
funded, in whole or in part, with federal funds administered by the FHWA. Accordingly, federal 
requirements apply to this procurement, any resulting agreement, and the services to be provided. 
The successful consultant will be required to follow all federal, state, and local laws and 
regulations.  
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND BACKGROUND 
 
The City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG), acting as the 
County Transportation Authority, is seeking qualified consultants to submit proposals for the San 
Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project. This project will involve 
supplemental planning efforts to further develop and expand upon the recommendations 
presented in the adopted Countywide Local Roadway Safety Plan. 
Key elements of the San Mateo County Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Establish a San Mateo County Transportation Safety Advisory Committee (TSAC): 
Building upon the advisory group particpated in the San Mateo Countywide Local Roadway 
Safety Plan (LRSP) development, the TSAC will include representatives from the 21 
jurisdictions within San Mateo County, partner agencies, and community partners. It will 
convene quarterly to address the following items:  


---PAGE_5---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
3 
 
(1) Regular Crash and Community Needs Review: Conduct ongoing evaluations of crash 
data and community needs to identify and prioritize opportunities for reducing crash risks 
for all roadway users, regardless of age or ability.  
(2) Local Agency Collaboration: Work closely with local agencies to integrate roadway 
safety considerations into all relevant actions and policies.  
(3) Best Practices Training: Organize training sessions to keep local jurisdictions updated 
on state-of-the-art safety planning and implementation practices.   
Plan Monitoring and Reporting of Safety Countermeasures: Develop standardized reporting 
protocols and a comprehensive monitoring plan to track the implementation of key safety 
countermeasures identified in the Countywide LRSP. This annual monitoring process will enable 
C/CAG to strengthen safety coordination, evaluate the effectiveness of implemented measures, 
and support continuous improvement in road safety across San Mateo County’s diverse 
communities. 
Develop a comprehensive white paper to guide the County in establishing an effective and 
forward-looking electric bicycle (e-bike) policy and implementation approach. The white paper 
will provide practical, systemwide guidance to support safe and consistent management of e-bike 
activity across local jurisdictions. The guidance will address policy, regulatory, design, and 
operational considerations, including facility design, speed management, signage, parking, and 
strategies to reduce conflicts among roadway users. The effort will also examine enforcement 
and education approaches, coordination with partner agencies, and the use of data, monitoring, 
and performance measures to inform decision-making and evaluate safety outcomes over time.  
III. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS  
 
Proposals must demonstrate that the firm or team submitting the proposal (“proposer”) meets the 
following Minimum Qualifications to be eligible for consideration for this project. 
1. Proposer must demonstrate to C/CAG’s satisfaction that the prime consultant and/or one 
or more subconsultant proposed this project have successfully completed at least three (3) 
projects in the past ten (10) years related to Local Roadway Safety Plan, Systemic Safety 
Analysis Report (SSAR), Vision Zero Action Plan and/or supplemental or 
implementation planning for the Safe Streets for All Grant Program. 
 
2. Proposers must demonstrate experience managing and implementing large-scale federal 
grant funded projects and successfully ensuring compliance with all applicable federal, 
state, and local requirements for such projects. 
 
 
 


---PAGE_6---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
4 
 
IV. PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
These guidelines are provided to standardize the preparation and submission of proposals by all 
consultants. The intent of these guidelines is to assist consultants in preparation of their 
proposals, to simplify the review process, and to help assure consistency in format and content. 
General Conditions:  
• Neither submission of a proposal nor C/CAG’s receipt of proposal materials confers any 
right to the proposer nor any obligation on C/CAG. This RFP does not commit C/CAG to 
award a contract or to pay any costs incurred in the preparation of a proposal in response 
to this RFP. 
• Only one proposal will be accepted from any one person, partnership, corporation, or 
other entity; however, several alternatives may be included in one response. 
• C/CAG reserves the right to accept or reject all proposals submitted, waive minor 
irregularities, request additional information, negotiate with any qualified consultant, or 
modify or cancel in part or in its entirety the RFP if it is in the best interests of C/CAG to 
do so.  
• Any contract resulting from this RFP will be awarded to the responsible proposer whose 
proposal is most advantageous to C/CAG, with price and other factors considered. 
• Should this RFP result in recommendation for award of a contract, the contract will not 
have any force or effect until it is approved and fully executed by C/CAG. 
• If the selected proposer fails to enter into a contract with C/CAG in a timely manner as 
determined by C/CAG, C/CAG reserves the right to reject the proposal and enter into a 
contract with the next highest scoring proposer. 
• The work performed pursuant to any resulting contract shall comply with the 
requirements of all federal, state, and local laws without limitation, and shall apply to this 
RFP and are incorporated into this RFP and any subsequent contract by this reference.  


---PAGE_7---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
5 
 
Note regarding the Public Records Act:  
Government Code Section 7920.000 et seq., the California Public Records Act, defines a public 
record as any writing containing information relating to the conduct of the public business. The 
Public Records Act provides that public records shall be disclosed upon written request and that 
any citizen has a right to inspect any public record unless the document is exempted from 
disclosure.  
Be advised that any contract that eventually arises from this RFP is a public record in its entirety. 
Also, all information submitted in response to this RFP is itself a public record without 
exception. Submission of any materials in response to this RFP constitutes a waiver by the 
submitting party of any claim that the information is protected from disclosure. By submitting 
materials, (1) you consent to release of such materials by C/CAG if requested under the Public 
Records Act without further notice to you, and (2) you agree to indemnify and hold harmless 
C/CAG for release of such information. 
Note regarding Federal Participation: 
Financial assistance for the services described in this RFP will be fully or partially provided 
using funds from the FHWA. Any contract and subcontract to provide the services described in 
this RFP will be subject to the Grant Agreement in Appendix B between C/CAG and FHWA and 
will be subject to all applicable federal laws and regulations as set forth in Exhibit A to the Grant 
Agreement.  
Submittal Requirements: 
Consultants must submit one (1) electronic copy of the proposal in pdf format. Each page shall 
be 8.5” x 11” or 11” x 17”. Each page shall be sequentially numbered, and a table of contents 
shall be provided. Each submittal shall be no more than 20 pages, excluding cover letter, title 
page, table of contents, resumes of key staff members, relevant experience, and references. All 
required appendices and forms are excluded from the 20 page limit unless otherwise specified. 
Any proposals received prior to the time and date specified above may be withdrawn or modified 
by written request of the consultant. To be considered for the project, however, a modified 
proposal must be received prior to January 23, 2026. 
Unsigned proposals or proposals signed by an individual not authorized to bind the prospective 
consultant will be considered nonresponsive and rejected. 
 
Proposal Format: 
1. Introductory Letter 
 
A brief statement (no longer than one page) of the consultant’s understanding of and interest 
in the project, including a brief description of the roles of the consultant and subcontractors, 
if any, that will be utilized for the requested services. Include a statement as to the 
consultant’s ability to complete the proposed tasks in the referenced timeframes and ability to 


---PAGE_8---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
6 
 
commence work immediately upon issuance of a Notice to Proceed. The person authorized to 
negotiate a contract with C/CAG shall sign the cover letter. Address the transmittal letter and 
the proposal as follows: 
 
Re: San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
Attn: Eva Gaye, Transportation Program Specialist 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County 
555 County Center, 5th Floor 
Redwood City, CA 94063 
 
The letter shall be on consultant letterhead and include the name, title, address, phone 
number, and email address of the individual to whom correspondence and other contacts 
should be directed during the selection process. Indicate whether there are any conflicts of 
interest, actual or apparent, that would limit the proposer’s ability to provide the requested 
services and describe the plan for mitigating such conflicts. Acknowledge the receipt of this 
RFP and any addendum to the RFP. Indicate that the proposal is a firm offer to enter into a 
contract to perform work related to this RFP for a period of 120 days from the due date for 
proposals. 
 
2. Title Page  
 
Proposals must include a title page that includes the RFP subject, the name of the proposer’s 
firm, local address, telephone number, name of contact person, contact person’s email 
address, and the date. 
 
3. Table of Contents  
 
Proposals must include a table of contents that includes a clear identification of the material 
by section and page number. 
 
4. Executive Summary and Project Approach 
 
Provide a brief summary (no more than two pages) of the qualifications and benefits of 
selecting the proposer to perform requested services. This section should clearly convey the 
proposer’s understanding of the project scope, the general approach to be taken, and identify 
any specific considerations regarding how the work will be completed.  
 
5. Work Plan 
 
This section should present a work plan for the tasks described in the Scope of 
Work. Details on the work plan are as follows:  
 
a) Discuss how the proposer will conduct the identified task, identify deliverables, and 
propose a schedule. The proposal should discuss the tasks in sufficient detail to 


---PAGE_9---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
7 
 
demonstrate a clear understanding of the project and component tasks. The proposal 
may include additional tasks or sub-tasks the proposer believes necessary to 
accomplish the project goals. The schedule should show the expected sequence of 
tasks, subtasks, and milestones. 
 
b) Provide a staffing plan for each task. Provide an organizational chart that shows roles 
and responsibilities of key personnel and reporting structure, including reporting and 
communication relationships between C/CAG, consultant staff, and subcontractors, if 
any. Designate a project manager who will provide a single point of contact for the 
management and coordination of all aspects of the work. The project manager will be 
responsible for coordinating and tracking all deliverables, communicating with the 
C/CAG Project Manager, and reporting results and recommendations. Identify the 
task leads and backup individuals. Clearly identify all staff with defined roles and 
proposed work location during the project.   
 
c) Describe approach to managing resources and maintaining quality results. Include a 
description of the role of any subcontractors, their specific responsibilities, and how 
their work will be supervised to maintain quality results. 
 
d) Identify and explain any problem areas and/or potential obstacles (such as 
maintaining schedule, budget overruns, feasibility, etc.) to successful completion of 
the Scope of Work. Discuss methods, formal and informal, to track and resolve these 
problems/obstacles during the project. 
 
6. Schedule of Work 
 
The Consultant shall submit a detailed project schedule in the form of a Gantt chart that 
identifies all phases of work and all services to be performed under this Agreement, 
including appropriate durations for Agency review, comment, and approval. The schedule 
shall be based on an anticipated project kick-off during the week of April 1, 2026, and shall 
demonstrate completion of all work no later than June 30, 2030. The total contract duration 
shall be four (4) years; however, the e-bike white paper deliverable shall be completed and 
submitted for final approval no later than December 31, 2026. 
 
Cost Proposal 
 
Provide a detailed task-based cost proposal for the project using the Cost Proposal Template 
(Appendix C). The cost estimate shall include personnel names, classifications, hourly rates, 
and any other cost items necessary to perform each of the tasks listed in the Scope of Work. 
A total cost shall be summarized and presented. Rates shall include all qualifying direct and 
indirect costs (consistent with the provisions of the terms and conditions of the Grant 
Agreement (Appendix B); fully loaded hourly rate means an hourly rate that includes all 
applicable surcharges such as taxes, insurance and fringe benefits as well as indirect costs, 
overhead and profit allowance, and ordinary materials and supplies. Rates indicated shall be 


---PAGE_10---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
8 
 
firm for the initial contract term and any annual rate escalation shall not exceed 3%. C/CAG 
reserves the right to negotiate with or to decline to enter into a contract with a proposer 
whose rates are unreasonable at C/CAG’s sole discretion. 
Supplemental Materials 
 
As an appendix, include the following as documentation (no more than 5 pages) of relevant 
consultant information, qualifications, and experience: 
Qualifications 
Identify the qualifications of staff assigned to perform the work, with expertise or 
experience addresses each of the specified needs. Include subcontractor personnel. 
Include a statement regarding familiarity with implementing and administering federal 
grant funded projects as they relate to Supplemental Planning or Implementation 
activities of a Safety Action Plan. The statement shall include documentation of 
experience with implementation grants and complying with all relevant federal 
requirements. 
 
In an appendix, provide resumes and references for all key team members. Resumes shall 
show relevant experience for the project Scope of Work, as well as the length of 
employment with the consultant. Key members, especially the project manager, shall 
have significant demonstrated experience with this type of project, and ideally should be 
committed to stay with the project for its duration. Any change in key personnel on the 
project team is subject to prior written approval of C/CAG. Removal of any key 
personnel identified in the responses to the RFP without prior written consent of C/CAG 
may be considered a material breach of contract. 
 
• Project Examples 
Demonstrate successful completion of comparable projects. These projects must illustrate 
the quality, type, and past performance of the project team. Include a detailed description 
of a minimum of three projects within the past five years, with the following information: 
 
• Contracting agency 
• Contracting agency Project Manager 
• Contracting agency contact information 
• Contract amount 
• Funding source 
• Date of contract 
• Date of completion 
• Consultant Project Manager and contact information 
• Project Objective 
• Project Description 
• Project Outcome   
 


---PAGE_11---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
9 
 
• Work Samples 
Provide at least one sample of a written technical report or memo and one sample of 
material developed for a similar study effort. The samples must have been prepared by 
key members of the proposer’s team and should identify the authors. The samples will be 
considered in evaluating firm and staff expertise and experience, and written presentation 
effectiveness. 
 
• References 
Provide three to five references (no more than five including references for 
subcontractors) and their contact information. References should be for work completed 
within five years of the date of the issuance of this RFP, and the contact person must be 
currently accessible via the contact information provided to be considered. Performance 
on any C/CAG contract within the past three years may be considered as reference 
information or when past performance is included as an evaluation factor. 
 
7. Additional Proposal Requirements 
As an appendix, include the following documentation (no more than ten pages) related to the 
following items: 
 
a) Conflict of Interest Requirements 
Include a Conflict of Interest Statement disclosing any financial, business or other 
relationship with C/CAG that may have an impact upon the outcome of the contract. List 
current clients who may have a financial interest in the outcome of this contract. Identify 
possible mitigation efforts, if any, to eliminate or avoid any actual or perceived conflicts 
of interest. 
 
If a consultant discovers a conflict during the execution of an assigned task, the 
consultant must immediately notify the C/CAG Project Manager regarding the conflict(s) 
of interest. The C/CAG Project Manager may terminate the contract involving the 
conflict of interest and C/CAG may obtain the conflicted services in any way allowed by 
law. Failure by the consultant to notify C/CAG Project Manager may be grounds for 
termination of the contract for cause pursuant to Section 4, Termination, of the Contract 
Agreement Template, provided as Appendix D to this RFP. 
 
b) Levine Act Disclosure  
The Levine Act (California Government Code Section 84308) imposes certain 
requirements on parties contracting with C/CAG related to campaign contributions to 
C/CAG Board members. Complete the form available at: https://ccag.ca.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2023/07/Appendix-3-CA-Levine-Act-Statement.pdf and include it in 
your submission.  
 
b) Litigation 
Indicate if the proposing consultant is or was involved with any litigation in connection 
with prior projects. If yes, briefly describe the nature of the litigation and the result. 


---PAGE_12---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
10 
 
 
c) Agreement 
Indicate if the proposing consultant requests any exceptions from the standard agreement 
included as Appendix D, Sample Agreement Template. 
 
Provide a brief statement affirming that the proposal terms shall remain in effect for one-
hundred twenty (120) days following the date proposal submittals are due. 
 
d) Insurance Provisions 
Submit a signed acknowledgement, for proposer only, that the proposer agrees to provide 
the required certificates of insurance providing verification of the minimum insurance 
requirements listed in Appendix D, Sample Agreement Template (see Section 11), within 
ten days of C/CAG’s notice to firm that it is the successful Proposer. 
 
e) Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification 
Submit a W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification for the 
proposer only (containing original signature), available at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-
pdf/fw9.pdf.  
 
f) Federal Funding Provisions 
The selected consultant’s services will be federally funded, which necessitate compliance 
with additional requirements. Special attention is directed to Appendix B, the Grant 
Agreement Under Fiscal Year 2024 Safe Streets for All Grant Program, including but not 
limited to Exhibit A to the Grant Agreement “Applicable Federal Laws and Regulations.”  
 
Consultant shall demonstrate familiarity with providing services for federally-funded 
projects and have a clear understanding of requirements/needs to facilitate the project.  
 
Proposals must contain the following federal certifications or forms: (1) Certification 
Regarding Lobbying, (2) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility, 
and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions, and (3) Disclosure of 
Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL) form. It is the responsibility of the consultants to use the 
latest version of the applicable forms when submitting proposals. The forms are available 
at https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/cfo/contractor_recip/grant_agreement_form.cfm. These 
forms will not count toward the page limit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


---PAGE_13---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
11 
 
V. PROPOSAL EVALUATION 
 
A. Evaluation Process 
All proposals will be evaluated by a Selection Committee (Committee) comprised of C/CAG 
staff and may include other parties with relevant subject matter expertise An initial assessment 
will be made to ensure that the submittal complies with the RFP requirements. An incomplete 
submittal will be deemed non-responsive and disqualified at C/CAG staff’s discretion. The 
Committee will then assess the quality of each submittal based on the evaluation criteria below, 
and will rank the proposals. All communication during the evaluation phase shall be through the 
C/CAG Contract Administrator/Project Manager only. Proposers shall neither contact nor lobby 
evaluators during the evaluation process. Attempts by proposer to contact members of the 
Committee may jeopardize the integrity of the evaluation and selection process and risk possible 
disqualification of proposer. 
The selection process may include oral interviews. If oral interviews are necessary, the 
consultant will be notified of the time and place of oral interviews and whether any additional 
information may be required to be submitted. The evaluation criteria for the oral interviews, 
should they occur, are included below. 
B. Evaluation Criteria 
 
Proposals will be evaluated according to each evaluation criterion and scored on a zero-to-five-
point rating scale. The scores for all the evaluation criteria will then be multiplied according to 
their assigned weight to arrive at a weighted score for each proposal. A proposal with a high 
weighted total will be deemed of higher quality than a proposal with a lesser-weighted total. The 
final maximum score for any proposal is five hundred (500) points. 
 
  Rating Scale 
0 
Not 
Acceptable 
Non-responsive, fails to meet RFP specifications. The approach has no 
probability of success. For mandatory requirement this score will result in 
disqualification of proposal. 
1 Poor 
Below average, falls short of expectations, is substandard to that which is 
the average or expected norm, has a low probability of success in 
achieving project objectives per RFP. 
2 Fair 
Has a reasonable probability of success, however, some objectives may 
not be met. 
3 Average 
Acceptable, achieves all objectives in a reasonable fashion per RFP 
specification.  
4 
Above 
Average/Good 
Very good probability of success, better than that which is average or 
expected as the norm. Achieves all objectives per RFP requirements and 
expectations. 


---PAGE_14---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
12 
 
5 
Excellent/ 
Exceptional 
Exceeds expectations, very innovative, clearly superior to that which is 
average or expected as the norm. Excellent probability of success and in 
achieving all objectives and meeting RFP specification. 
 
The evaluation criteria summary and their respective weights are as follows: 
No. Written Evaluation Criteria Weight 
1 Organization of Proposal 5 
2 Staff and Firm Qualifications 20 
3 Understanding of Project Scope of Work 20 
4 Proposed Project Approach 15 
5 Cost Effectiveness 15 
6 References 5 
7 Conflict of Interest Statement Pass/Fail 
 Subtotal: 80 
 
No. Interview Evaluation Criteria Weight 
8 Presentation by team 10 
9 Q&A Response to panel questions 10 
 Subtotal: 20 
 Total: 100 
 
1. Organization of Proposal (5 points)  
• Responses that do not include the proposal content requirements identified within this 
RFP and subsequent addenda and do not address each of the items listed below will be 
considered incomplete, be rated a Fail in the Evaluation Criteria and will receive no 
further consideration.  
 
2. Staff and Firm Qualifications (20 points) 
• Relevant experience, specific qualifications, and technical expertise of the firm and sub-
consultants to conduct services on both federal and nonfederal-aid projects. 
• Describes familiarity of project and demonstrates understanding of work completed to 
date and project objectives moving forward 
• Roles and Organization of Proposed Team 
o Proposes adequate and appropriate disciplines of project team. 
o Some or all of team members have previously worked together on similar 
project(s). 
o Overall organization of the team is relevant to C/CAG’s needs. 
• Roles of Key Individuals on the Team 
o Proposed team members, as demonstrated by enclosed resumes, have relevant 
experience for their role in the project. 


---PAGE_15---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
13 
 
o Key positions required to execute the project team’s responsibilities are 
appropriately staffed. 
• Working Relationship with C/CAG 
o Team and its leaders have experience working in the public sector and knowledge 
of public sector procurement process. 
o Team leadership understands the nature of public sector work and its decision-
making process. 
 
3. Understanding of Project Scope of Work (20 points) 
• Detailed Scope of Services to be Provided 
o Proposed scope of services is appropriate for all phases of the work. 
o Scope addresses all known project needs and appears achievable in the 
timeframes set forth in the project schedule. 
o The proposal includes a detailed work plan.  
• Project Deliverables 
o Understanding of the Project scope and ability to meet program objectives.  
 
4. Proposed Project Approach (15 points) 
• Project and Management Approach 
o Team is managed by an individual with appropriate experience in similar projects. 
This person’s time is appropriately committed to the project. 
o Project team and management approach responds to project issues. Team 
structure provides adequate capability to perform both volume and quality of 
needed work within project schedule milestones. 
• Schedule of Work 
o Schedule shows completion of the work within or preferably prior to the C/CAG 
overall time limits as specified in this RFP. The schedule serves as a project 
timeline, stating all major milestones and required submittals for project 
management and federal funding compliance.  
o The schedule addresses all reasonably anticipated phases of the project, in 
accordance with the general requirements of this RFP. 
• Presentation of written proposals and sample reports. 
 
5. Cost Effectiveness (15 points) 
• Cost Control and Budgeting Methodology 
o Proposer has a system or process for managing cost and budget. 
o Evidence of successful budget management for a similar project. 
• Proposal clearly defines cost in spreadsheet format. 
• Reasonableness of hourly rates.  
• Allocation of resources for tasks and activities. 
 
6. Conflict of Interest Statement (Pass/Fail) 
• Discloses any financial, business, or other relationship with C/CAG that may have an 
impact upon the outcome of the contract.   


---PAGE_16---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
14 
 
• Lists current clients who may have a financial interest in the outcome of this contract.  
 
7. References (5 points) 
• Provide as reference the names of at least three agencies you currently or have 
previously consulted for in the past three years. 
 
8. Presentation by Team (10 points) (if oral interviews are necessary) 
• Team presentation conveying project understanding, communication skills, 
innovative ideas, critical issues and solutions. 
 
9. Q&A Response to Panel Questions (10 points) (if oral interviews are necessary) 
• Proposer provides responses to various interview panel questions.  
 
Weighted scores for each proposal will be assigned utilizing the table below: 
No. Evaluation Criteria Rating 
(0-5) 
Weight Score  
(Rating * Weight) 
1 Organization of Proposal  5  
2 Staff and Firm Qualifications  20  
3 Understanding of Project Scope of 
Work 
 20  
4 Proposed Project Approach  15  
5 Cost Effectiveness  15  
6 References  5  
7 Conflict of Interest Statement  N/A Pass/Fail Pass/Fail 
8 Presentation by Team  10  
9 Q&A Response to Panel Questions  10  
 Total:  100 /500 
 
 
D. Recommendation for Contract Award 
C/CAG reserves the right to not convene oral interviews or discussions, and to make an award on 
the basis of initial proposals. Accordingly, each initial proposal should be submitted on the most 
favorable terms from a price and a technical viewpoint. C/CAG reserves the right to negotiate 
and/or include a best and final offer stage to the process.  
References may be contacted at any point in the evaluation process. C/CAG reserves the right to 
consider consultant performance based on comments from submitted references. Experience and 
ability to perform work is a significant consideration.  
The Committee will recommend the selected proposer to the C/CAG Board of Directors for 
approval, based on the Committee’s evaluation of the written proposals and oral interviews (if 
held).  


---PAGE_17---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
15 
 
 
E. Selection Disputes 
A proposer may object to a provision of the RFP on the grounds that it is arbitrary, biased, or 
unduly restrictive, or to the selection of a particular proposer on the grounds that C/CAG 
procedures, the provisions of the RFP or applicable provisions of federal, state, or local law have 
been violated or inaccurately or inappropriately applied by submitting a written protest to the 
C/CAG Project Manager in accordance with the following deadlines: 
1. No later than 5:00 p.m. on the third business day prior to the date Responses to RFP are 
due, for objections to RFP provisions. 
2. No later than 5:00 p.m. on the third business day after the date the proposer is notified 
that it did not meet the minimum qualifications or was found to be non-responsive. 
3. No later than 5:00 p.m. on the third business day after the date on which the proposer is 
notified that it was not selected, or, if applicable, the date the Committee recommends 
award, whichever is later, for objections to the recommended award. 
 
Protests must clearly and specifically describe the basis for the protest and state the proposed 
relief or remedy in sufficient detail for C/CAG staff to recommend a resolution to the C/CAG 
Executive Director. The C/CAG Executive Director will respond to the protest in writing, based 
on the recommendation of staff.  
  


---PAGE_18---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
16 
 
APPENDIX A - SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Key elements for the San Mateo County Safe Streets for All Supplemental planning project 
include but is not limited to the following: 
TASK 1: PROJECT INITIATION AND MANAGEMENT  
The Consultant shall conduct a project initiation meeting and hold recurring bi-weekly 
coordination meetings with C/CAG staff to support effective communication, monitor progress, 
and ensure adherence to the approved project schedule. The Consultant shall also be responsible 
for scheduling, preparing for, and facilitating no fewer than sixteen (16) quarterly meetings with 
the C/CAG Transportation Safety Advisory Committee (TSAC), and for delivering no fewer 
than twelve (12) formal presentations to C/CAG committees and the Board. 
The anticipated project term is approximately four (4) years. The first eight (8) months of the 
contract period (April 2026 through December 2026) shall focus on tasks related to development 
of the E-Bike White Paper, as well as the initial development of the overall program framework 
and associated deliverables. 
Task 1 Deliverables: 
1. Project Kick-off Meeting 
2. Bi-weekly Project management meetings 
3. Develop project management meeting agendas and action items 
4. Monthly Invoices and Progress reports 
TASK 2: FACILITATE QUARTERLY TRANSPORTATION SAFETY ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE (TSAC) MEETINGS 
The Consultant will organize, manage, and facilitate quarterly Transportation Safety Advisory 
Committee (TSAC) meetings over a four-year period to support coordination, knowledge-
sharing, and implementation of Countywide Local Road Safety Plan (LRSP) initiatives. These 
meetings will provide a collaborative forum for sharing best practices, addressing emerging 
transportation safety challenges, and advancing coordinated solutions among member agencies. 
The Consultant will develop and manage meeting agendas and materials aligned with 
Countywide LRSP goals, local agency priorities, and emerging safety issues. Responsibilities 
include identifying relevant topics, case studies, and best practices; coordinating up to two 
qualified external speakers per meeting; and arranging presentations, trainings, and breakout 
discussions that promote active engagement and informed decision-making. The Consultant will 
also incorporate updates on current and upcoming funding opportunities to support agency 
preparedness for competitive grant applications. Each meeting will be facilitated to encourage 
meaningful dialogue, knowledge exchange, and clear next steps in support of countywide safety 
objectives. 


---PAGE_19---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
17 
 
Task 2: Deliverables 
1. Provide 16 meeting agendas for each TSAC meeting 
2. Provide 16 meeting notes for each TSAC meeting 
3. Develop meeting materials, including slide decks, discussion prompts, handouts, and 
facilitation guides. 
4. Arrange best practices training 
 
TASK 3: TRACK IMPLEMENTATION PLAN PROGRESS 
The Consultant will work collaboratively with C/CAG staff and Transportation Safety Advisory 
Committee (TSAC) member jurisdictions to develop meaningful, actionable performance 
measures to support ongoing monitoring of Countywide Local Road Safety Plan (LRSP) 
implementation. The Consultant will establish a clear and repeatable process for collecting, 
tracking, and updating performance data, which may include surveys or standardized reporting 
templates. This performance-tracking framework will streamline countywide evaluation efforts, 
support consistent reporting, and enable C/CAG to assess progress, identify trends, and pursue 
continuous improvement in roadway safety outcomes. 
Task 3 Deliverables 
1. Performance measures and reporting methodology. 
2. Annual LRSP Implementation Progress Report (Draft and Final)  
3. Presentation materials for Board and Committee meetings to support annual updates. 
 
TASK 4: E-BIKE SAFETY WHITEPAPER: 
The Consultant will prepare a comprehensive, implementation-oriented white paper on electric 
bicycles (e-bikes) to support the County and local jurisdictions in developing consistent and 
effective policies. The white paper will serve as a practical guide that can be adopted, adapted, or 
referenced for ordinances, design standards, enforcement strategies, and public education efforts. 
It will integrate best practices, local conditions, emerging technologies, regulatory frameworks, 
and safety considerations to advance a coordinated, forward-looking countywide approach to e-
bike planning and management. Each component outlined below will be presented to the C/CAG 
Standing Committees during the development of the white paper for review and input. 
The Consultant shall prepare a series of technical memoranda corresponding to the components 
described in Sections A–F below. These memoranda shall document interim findings, analysis, 
and recommendations as work progresses and shall be used to support ongoing coordination, 
review, and discussion with C/CAG and its advisory committees. Each memorandum shall 
reflect the state of work at the time of submittal and may be refined as the project advances. 


---PAGE_20---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
18 
 
Following completion of the individual memoranda, the Consultant shall consolidate and 
integrate the content into a single, cohesive E-Bike Safety White Paper. The White Paper shall 
synthesize the findings and recommendations from the memoranda into a comprehensive, 
countywide document. A Draft E-Bike Safety White Paper shall be prepared for review and 
comment, followed by a Final E-Bike Safety White Paper that incorporates C/CAG and 
stakeholder feedback. 
 
A. E-Bike Safety and Operations Guidance 
The Consultant shall prepare guidance that outlines best practices and systemwide approaches 
for managing e-bike activity. This section shall address safe network design, operational 
considerations, regulatory approaches, enforcement considerations, and coordination with 
regional and partner agencies. This guidance will focus on practical application across different 
facility types. 
B. Ordinance Templates and Guidance 
The Consultant shall prepare a set of model ordinance templates and supporting guidance 
designed for use by local jurisdictions to regulate e-bike activity. Deliverables shall include 
written ordinance templates organized by e-bike class and facility type, enforcement and citation 
languages, and explanatory notes identifying where jurisdictions may tailor language to reflect 
local context. All templates shall include explicit references to applicable California Vehicle 
Code provisions to support legal consistency and defensibility. 
C. E-Bike Policy Decision Matrix for Local Agencies 
The Consultant shall develop an E-Bike Policy Decision Matrix, delivered as a concise, user-
friendly table, to help local jurisdictions identify appropriate e-bike rules and safety treatments 
based on local conditions. The matrix shall outline recommended actions for different contexts, 
including where e-bikes may operate, applicable speed management measures, the required 
signage or facility treatments, and whether education or enforcement actions should be 
considered. 
D. Design and Operations Guidance 
The Consultant shall prepare design and operations guidance to support the safe and effective 
integration of e-bikes into the transportation system. This guidance shall identify facility 
treatments for managing e-bike speeds, strategies to mitigate conflicts among e-bike users, 
pedestrians, other micromobility users, and motor vehicles, and best practices for signage and 
pavement markings. The guidance shall also address e-bike parking, staging, and charging 
considerations, as appropriate. 
E. Enforcement and Education Guidebook 


---PAGE_21---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
19 
 
The Consultant shall develop an Enforcement and Education Guide book that outlines 
enforcement strategies appropriate for different community contexts and levels of local 
resources. The recommendation shall include approaches for coordinating education and 
outreach efforts with enforcement activities to improve compliance and safety outcomes.  
Furthermore, the recommendation shall identify opportunities for coordination with schools, law 
enforcement agencies, and community partners. 
F. Data, Monitoring, and Performance Measures 
The Consultant shall identify data needs, analytic methods, and performance metrics to support 
monitoring of e-bike usage patterns, crash trends, and safety outcomes. This section shall support 
evidence-based decision-making and enable jurisdictions to track the effectiveness of 
implemented policies and treatments over time. 
Task 4 Deliverables: 
 
1. Draft memo of each component described above in sections A-F 
2. Final memo of each component described above in sections A-F 
3. Draft final E-bike Safety White Paper compiled from the memos 
4. Final E-bike Safety White Paper 
5. Conduct a minimum of 12 presentations to the C/CAG Technical Advisory Committees, the 
Transportation Safety Advisory Committee, C/CAG Board, and C/CAG Bike and Pedestrian 
Advisory Committees  
6. Develop presentation materials for E- Bike White Paper  
 
TASK 5: OPTIONAL TASK(S) 
As needed and only upon prior approval from the C/CAG project manager, optional tasks as 
assigned may include, but are not limited to: 
• Preparing additional whitepapers centered around the following topics: 
o Integrating Emerging Technologies into Transportation Safety 
o Developing Comprehensive Road Safety Management Systems 
o Leveraging Data and Analytics for Road Safety Improvement 
 
Task 5 Deliverables 
1. To be determined 
 


---PAGE_22---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
20 
 
 
APPENDIX B – GRANT AGREEMENT UNDER FISCAL YEAR 2024 SAFE 
STREETS FOR ALL GRANT PROGRAM 
 
The Grant Agreement incorporates the “General Terms and Conditions Under the Fiscal Year 2024 Safe Streets and 
Roads for All (“SS4A”) Grant Program,” dated March 17, 2025, which is available at 
https://www.transportation.gov/grants/ss4a/grant-agreements under “Fiscal Year 2024.” The General Terms and 
Conditions are part of this Agreement, as are the exhibits to the General Terms and Conditions, available at the same 
location. 
  


---PAGE_23---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
21 
 
 
APPENDIX C – COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE 
 
https://ccag.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/Appendix-C-Cost-Proposal-Template.xlsx 
 
  


---PAGE_24---
C/CAG  Request for Proposals 
 San Mateo Countywide Safe Streets for All Supplemental Planning Project 
 
22 
 
 
APPENDIX D – SAMPLE AGREEMENT TEMPLATE 
 
https://ccag.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/Appendix-D-2025-federal-funds-agreement-template_.pdf 
 