


---PAGE_1---
REQUEST FOR QUOTES 
BID DUE DATE: 
October 8, 2019 
TITLE: 
GPS Hardware and Software 
REQUEST FOR QUOTE NUMBER: 
19-326
TERM OF AGREEMENT:  
The Agreement will commence upon the issuance of a Purchase Order and shall be effective for a 
period of two (2) years. 
DESIGNATED CONTACTS:  
Matthew Brownell 
Contract Management Specialist 1 
Phone: (518) 530-4484 
Email: bfs.contracts@tax.ny.gov    
Shannon Plasencia 
Contract Management Specialist 2 
Phone: (518) 530-4484 
Email: bfs.contracts@tax.ny.gov    
The bid must be fully and properly executed by an authorized person. By signing you certify your 
express authority to sign on behalf of yourself, your company, or other entity and full knowledge 
and  acceptance  of  this REQUEST  FOR  QUOTES,  Appendix  A  (Standard  Clauses  For  New  York 
State  Contracts), and  that  all  information  provided  is  complete,  true  and  accurate.  By  signing, 
Bidder also affirms that it understands and agrees to comply with the Department of Taxation and 
Finance procedures relative to permissible contacts as required by State Finance Law §139-j (3) 
and §139-j (6) (b). Information may be found at: http://www.tax.ny.gov/about/procure   
Bidder’s Federal Tax Identification Number: 
(Do Not Use Social Security Number) 
NYS Vendor Identification Number:  
(See “New York State Vendor File Registration” clause) 
If applicable, place an “x” 
in the appropriate box 
(check all that apply):  
☐NYS Small Business *☐NYS Certified
Minority Owned
Business
☐NYS Certified
Women Owned
Business
# of Employees 
Legal Business Name of Company Bidding: 
D/B/A - Doing Business As (if applicable): 
Street City State Zip County: 
If you are not bidding, place an “x” in the box and return this page only. 
☐WE ARE UNABLE TO BID NOW BECAUSE:
Bidder’s Signature: 
Title:   
Printed or Typed Name: 
Date:   
*Note: A “New York State Small Business” is defined as a company that is a resident to New York
State, independently owned and operated, with 100 or fewer employees, and not dominant in its
field. There is no certification process to be considered a New York State Small Business.


---PAGE_2---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 2 
1. INTRODUCTION 
GENERAL 
The New York State Department of Taxation and Finance (“DTF” or “Department”) has a need to monitor 
and manage a fleet of approximately ninety-three (93) vehicles. The current GPS hardware being utilized 
by the Department are GEOTAB GO7 devices, which are nearing end of life. DTF is seeking to upgrade 
the current GPS hardware and the associated software in order to maintain its current fleet management 
capabilities. The proposed solution must meet the Department’s needs for fleet tracking and management 
as described in Section 5, Requirements. 
GPS HARDWARE AND INSTALLATION SERVICES 
The Department anticipates an initial order of ninety-three (93) GPS devices to be installed at three (3) 
different locations within New York State. The Bidder must provide for complete installation of the devices 
at the Department’s locations in  Albany,  Long  Island,  and  Batavia. All  costs for  travel  and  any  supplies 
necessary for complete installation of each device must be provided on Attachment 1, Quote Response 
Form.  
GPS SOFTWARE 
The functionality required by the Department includes but is not limited to: capturing vehicle information 
(i.e., mileage and location history), trip information (i.e., vehicle location and speed), and fleet information 
(i.e.,  fleet  summary);  capturing  complete  information  regardless  of  the  network  coverage  status  (i.e., 
satellite coverage to ensure complete data); and reporting capabilities for DTF staff. 
SUBMISSION OF RFQ QUESTIONS 
The vendor community will have an opportunity to submit written questions and requests for clarifications 
regarding this RFQ. All questions regarding this RFQ must be submitted by email to one of the Designated 
Contacts  identified  on  the  cover  page and  received  by  the  date  specified  in Section  4,  Schedule  of 
Events.  Questions  should  cite  the  specific  RFQ section  and  page  number  and  should  indicate  the firm 
name, address, phone number, and email address of the individual submitting questions. 
All inquiries concerning this bid solicitation must be addressed to the Designated Contacts identified on 
the cover page of this RFQ. 
The Department will respond, in writing, to all substantive questions by the date specified in Section 4, 
Schedule of Events. All amendments, clarifications, Bidder questions with the Department’s responses, 
and any announcements related to this bid will be posted on the Department’s Procurement Opportunity 
website at: https://www.tax.ny.gov/about/procure/current_bid_opportunities.htm. 
IT IS INCUMBENT ON THE PROSPECTIVE BIDDER TO NOTIFY THE DESIGNATED CONTACTS OF 
ANY TERM, CONDITION, ETC. THAT PRECLUDES THE VENDOR FROM SUBMITTING A BID. 
 
 


---PAGE_3---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 3 
2. INSTALLATION LOCATIONS 
The following three (3) locations will require installation of the devices to agency vehicles: 
 
Capital Region Office – Albany 
42 Vehicles W A Harriman Campus 
Albany, New York 12227 
 
Long Island Regional Office 
32 Vehicles 250 Veterans Memorial Highway 
Hauppauge, New York 11788  
 
Batavia District Office 
19 Vehicles 3837 West Main Street Road 
Batavia, New York 14020 
  
 
3. TERM 
This Agreement will commence upon the issuance of a Purchase Order and shall be effective for a period 
of two (2) years. 
 
4. SCHEDULE OF EVENTS  
Request for Quotes Published September 18, 2019 
Deadline for Submission of Bidder Questions September 25, 2019 
Department Responses to Bidder Questions Published September 30, 2019 
Deadline for Submission of Quotes 
(Cover Page and Attachments 1-4) 
October 8, 2019 by 2:00 PM ET 
Anticipated Notification of Intent to Award October 16, 2019 
Issuance of Purchase Order 
Approximately 10 business days after 
Notification of Intent to Award 
Quotes received after the due date and time may not be accepted. 


---PAGE_4---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 4 
 
5.  REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS  
Bids will not be considered unless the vendor submitting a bid meets the following minimum qualifications. 
The Bidder must: 
• Be the original manufacturer or authorized reseller of the hardware and software to be provided; 
and 
• Be compliant with all applicable laws and regulations related to providing these services. 
GPS HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS  
The GPS devices must, at a minimum, meet all requirements described in this section. See Appendix B, 
Current Specifications for information on the hardware currently in use by the Department.  
NOTE:  Appendix  B is  provided  for  informational  purposes  to  assist  Bidders  in  understanding  the 
Department’s current usage/capabilities and IS NOT incorporated as requirements in this RFQ. 
 
The hardware device(s) must: 
• Be the most current version of the GPS tracking module; 
• Be designed and/or placed in an unobtrusive way that will not inconvenience or obstruct the 
vehicle’s operator or impact any of the other requirements of this RFQ; 
• Be installed via the vehicle’s engine diagnostics port and not require being hard wired directly 
to the vehicle’s battery; 
• Have the ability to wirelessly receive any required maintenance such as firmware updates; and 
• Have  the  ability  to  continuously  log  vehicle  data,  regardless  of  any  outages  in  network 
coverage, resulting in no missing data. This data must be deemed reliable by the Department. 
The  Department  reserves  the  right,  in  its  sole  discretion,  to  make  the  final  determination  of 
whether the proposed solution includes information that is deemed reliable. 
INSTALLATION SERVICES REQUIREMENTS  
The Department will require complete installation of the GPS hardware to the Department’s fleet of vehicles 
at the locations specified in Section 2, Installation Locations. The date(s) and time(s) of the installations 
will  be  mutually  agreed  upon  by  the  awarded  Bidder  and  the  Department. All  installations must  be 
completed no later than the end of Calendar Year 2019. 
 
All installation costs must be provided on Attachment 1, Quote Response Form, and must be inclusive 
of all labor and travel to the Department’s three (3) locations. The cost must include any additional items 
required for proper installation (i.e., cables, zip ties, harnesses).  


---PAGE_5---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 5 
5.  REQUIREMENTS
Please note that the number of vehicles requiring installation at each location are subject to change. These 
figures are based on current information and are only intended to assist Bidders in estimating the costs to 
be  included  on Attachment  1.  The  Department  will  provide notification  of  any  changes  to  the above 
figures prior to the request for installation.  
Although not anticipated, if future installations of hardware are required, DTF will pay for each installation 
according to the prices provided on Attachment 1 for the location in which the installation is needed.  
GPS SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS 
The  GPS  software  must,  at  a  minimum,  meet  all  requirements  described  in  this  section. The  software 
must: 
•Be compatible with the most current version of the GPS tracking module;
•Operate with minimal delay in upload of information;
•Capture  and  report idle vehicle  data  (i.e.,  vehicle  mileage,  battery  information,  service
reminders / notifications, historical location data, etc.);
•Capture  and  report vehicle trip  data  (i.e.,  vehicle  speed,  vehicle  location,  engine idle  time,
seatbelt indicator, etc.);
•Capture and report fleet-level data (i.e., summary level views of aggregated vehicle data);
•Include ad hoc reporting which will allow DTF staff to generate customized reports using the
information gathered throughout the term of this Agreement;
•Have  the  capability  to  store  information  when  network  coverage  is  unavailable  and  transmit
that information once network coverage is regained;
Note: Complete and accurate data must be made available to DTF staff whether within network
coverage or outside of network coverage.
•Include optional email alerts for DTF staff to provide real-time updates on information including,
but not limited to, vehicle location and speed; and
•Allow DTF staff to identify a specific geographical area, otherwise known as a geo-fence, and
receive real-time data and/or reports based on those location specifications as they relate to
the vehicle data captured in this RFQ. This functionality must allow DTF staff to input conditions
and receive optional customized alerts based on these zones and conditions. At a minimum,
these  capabilities must allow  DTF  staff to  identify  in  real-time if  a  vehicle  leaves  or  enters  a
predefined zone;


---PAGE_6---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 6 
5.  REQUIREMENTS
ONGOING SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE 
The Department will  require  ongoing  support  throughout  the  term of  the  Agreement,  including  any 
necessary maintenance to the hardware to keep the equipment and systems operational and up-to-date. 
If any devices are identified by the Department to require maintenance or replacement, not resulting from 
the negligence of any DTF employee, the devices and/or services must be provided to the Department at 
no  cost within 30 days of the Department’s notification. If the model of the GPS devices becomes 
unsupported during the term, the awarded Bidder must work with the Department to replace the devices. 
The Department reserves the right to terminate the Agreement if such replacement devices are deemed 
unacceptable.  
Customer  assistance  must  be  provided  to  DTF  staff  during  standard  business  hours,  Monday  through 
Friday, excluding national and NYS state holidays.  
The awarded Bidder should provide contact information of staff that will be available to assist DTF with 
inquiries related to the hardware and software received as a result of this RFQ.  
6. PRICE
Prices are to be provided by the Bidder on Attachment 1, Quote Response Form. A Bidder’s failure to 
provide a complete pricing response will result in the Bidder’s proposal being deemed non-responsive. 
Bidders must not modify or change the Attachment. Any pricing information or add-on costs that do not 
conform  to  the  presentation  allowed  on Attachment  1 cannot  be  evaluated,  will  be  disregarded  as 
extraneous, and cannot be charged to the Department.  
Charges for travel cannot be listed as separate line items on the bid response form. The prices bid for 
each item must be inclusive of all costs. 
Prices as they appear on submitted bids must be guaranteed by the vendor for the  term  of  the 
Agreement. 
(Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank) 


---PAGE_7---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 7 
7. FEES AND PAYMENT 
Electronic Payment 
Payment  for  invoices  submitted  by  the  awarded  Bidder  shall  only  be  rendered  electronically  unless 
payment  by  paper  check  is  expressly  authorized  by  the  Commissioner,  at  the  Commissioner’s  sole 
discretion, due to extenuating circumstances. Such electronic payment shall be made in accordance with 
ordinary State procedures and practices. The awarded Bidder shall comply with the State Comptroller’s 
procedures to authorize electronic payments. Authorization forms are available at the State Comptroller’s 
website  at  www.osc.state.ny.us/epay/index.htm,  by  email  at  helpdesk@sfs.ny.gov,  or  by  telephone  at 
(855)-233-8363. The Bidder acknowledges that it will not receive payment on any invoices submitted under 
this Agreement if it does not comply with the State Comptroller’s electronic procedures, except where the 
Commissioner has expressly authorized payment by paper check as set forth above. 
Invoices  cannot  reflect  charges  in  excess  of  the  totals  bid  on Attachment 1,  Quote  Response Form, 
unless  the  additionally  incurred  costs  are  mutually  agreed  upon  in  writing  between  the  Bidder  and  an 
authorized Department representative. The Department will not pay any costs associated with goods or 
services that have not been received. 
Properly Submitted Invoices 
Payment will be made only upon submission of proper invoices by the awarded Bidder, and in accordance 
with Article 11-A of New York State Finance Law. 
Required Information on properly submitted invoices: 
• Awarded Bidder's SFS Vendor Number; 
• Invoice or account number; 
• Name of NYS Agency to which goods or services related to the invoice were provided; 
• A  valid  NYS  Purchase  Order (PO)  Number  and/or  Contract  number  associated  with  the 
invoice; and 
• Line item details that match the corresponding PO line item. 
Invoice Submission 
Preferred Method: Email invoices to the OGS-BSC at:  accountspayable@ogs.ny.gov including the invoice 
number and the name of the agency being billed in the subject field. (Note:  Do not send a paper copy in 
addition to the electronic invoice.) 
Alternate method:  Mail invoices to OGS-BSC at the following U.S. postal address: 
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
c/o NYS OGS Business Services Center 
1220 Washington Avenue 
Building 5, 5th Floor 
Albany, NY 12226-1900 
 
 


---PAGE_8---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 8 
8.  METHOD OF AWARD
The award will be made to the responsive and responsible Bidder who provides the lowest overall cost 
and meets all requirements set forth in this RFQ. The total cost  will  be  calculated using the  information 
provided on Attachment 1, Quote Response Form. 
In the event tie bids are received by the Department, the earliest bid received shall determine the winner. 
9. RESPONSE SUBMISSION
Responses to this RFQ must be emailed to BFS.Contracts@tax.ny.gov no later than October 8, 2019 at 
2:00 PM ET. Responses received by other methods or after the deadline may not be accepted. 
When responding to this RFQ, Bidders must: 
•Submit detailed specifications, circulars and all necessary data on the product to be furnished. If
the  product  offered  differs  from  the  detailed  requirements  outlined  in  this RFQ,  explain  such
deviation(s)  or  qualification(s)  on  a  separate  sheet.  The  State,  however,  reserves  the  right  to
request any additional information deemed necessary for the proper evaluation of bids. Failure to
submit any of the above data may result in rejection of the bid.
•Complete Attachment 1, Quote Response Form, to affirm understanding of, and agreement to
comply  with, the  mandatory  financial  provisions  of  this  RFQ.  Bidders  must  only  use  this  form  to
present their pricing and must not modify or change the form. All costs associated with this RFQ
must be incorporated into the Bidder’s financial response.
•Include the following completed forms in their submission:
oCover Page- Completed Cover Page of this RFQ 
oAttachment 1- Quote Response Form 
oAttachment 2- Offerer  Understanding  of,  and  Compliance 
with, Procurement Lobbying Guidelines 
oAttachment 3- Offerer Disclosure of Prior Non-
Responsibility Determinations 
oAttachment 4- Offerer’s  Certification  of  Compliance  with 
State Finance Law 139-k (5) 
If you have any questions, please contact the  Designated  Contacts  identified on  the  cover  page of  this 
RFQ. Please include “RFQ 19-326” in the subject line of your email to ensure a timely response. 


---PAGE_9---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 9 
10. ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
10.1 APPENDIX A – STANDARD CLAUSES FOR NYS CONTRACTS 
Appendix  A,  Standard  Clauses  for  NYS  Contracts,  dated  January  2014  attached  hereto,  is  hereby 
expressly made a part of this RFQ as fully as if set forth at length herein.  Please retain this document 
for future reference. 
10.2 PROCUREMENT LOBBYING LAW 
10.2.1.  Summary of Policy and Prohibitions on Procurement Lobbying 
Pursuant to State Finance Law §§139-j and 139-k, this solicitation includes and imposes certain 
restrictions on communications between the DTF and an Offerer/bidder during the procurement 
process. An Offerer/bidder is restricted from making contacts from the earliest notice of intent to 
solicit offers/bids through final award and approval of the Procurement Contract by the DTF and, 
if applicable, the Office of the State Comptroller (“restricted period”) to other than the Designated 
Contact(s) unless it is a contact that is included among certain statutory exceptions set forth in 
State Finance Law §139-j (3) (a). Designated Contact(s), as of the date hereof, is identified above. 
The  DTF  employees  are  also  required  to  obtain  certain  information  when  contacted during  the 
restricted period and make a determination of the responsibility of the Offerer/bidder pursuant to 
these two statutes. Certain findings of non-responsibility can result in rejection for contract award 
and  in  the  event  of  two  findings  within  a  four-year  period,  the  Offerer/bidder  is  debarred  from 
obtaining governmental Procurement Contracts. Information related to the Procurement Lobbying 
Law and DTF guidelines can be found on the DTF’s Procurement website at: 
https://www.tax.ny.gov/about/procure/. 
10.2.2.  Affirmation of Understanding of, and Compliance with Procurement Lobbying Guidelines 
New York State Finance Law 139-j(6)(b) requires that the DTF seek written affirmation from all 
Offerers as to the Offerer’s understanding of, and agreement to comply with, the DTF procedures 
relating  to  permissible  contacts  during  a  Government  Procurement.  Information  related  to  the 
Procurement Lobbying Law and DTF guidelines can be found on the Department’s Procurement 
website at: https://www.tax.ny.gov/about/procure/   
Attachment  2,  Offerer  Understanding  of,  and  Compliance  with,  Procurement  Lobbying 
Guidelines is to be completed and submitted with this bid. 
10.2.3.  Procurement Lobbying Act Offerer Disclosure of Prior Non-Responsibility Determinations 
New  York State Finance  Law  §139-k(2)  obligates  a  Governmental  Entity  to  obtain  specific 
information regarding  prior  non-responsibility  determinations  with  respect  to  State  Finance  Law 
§139-j. This information must be collected in addition to the information that is separately obtained
pursuant to State Finance Law §163(9). In accordance with State Finance Law §139-k, an Offerer
must be asked to disclose whether there has been a finding of non-responsibility made within the
previous four (4) years by any Governmental Entity due to: (a) a violation of State Finance Law
§139-j or (b) the intentional provision of false or incomplete information to a Governmental Entity.
The terms “Offerer” and “Governmental Entity” are defined in State Finance Law § 139-k(1). State
Finance Law §139-j sets forth detailed requirements about the restrictions on Contacts during the


---PAGE_10---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 10 
10. ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
procurement process. A violation of State Finance Law §139-j includes, but is not limited to, an 
impermissible Contact during the restricted period (for example, contacting a person or entity other 
than the designated contact person, when such contact does not fall within one of the exemptions). 
As part of its responsibility determination, State Finance Law §139-k(3) mandates consideration 
of whether an Offerer fails to timely disclose accurate or complete information regarding the above 
non-responsibility  determination.  In  accordance  with  law,  no  Procurement  Contract  shall  be 
awarded to any Offerer that fails to timely disclose accurate or complete information under this 
section,  unless  a  finding  is  made  that  the  award  of  the  Procurement  Contract  to  the  Offerer  is 
necessary to protect public property or public health safety, and that the Offerer is the only source 
capable  of  supplying  the  required  Article  of  Procurement  within  the  necessary  timeframe.  See 
State Finance Law §§139-j (10)(b) and 139-k(3).  
A  Governmental  Entity  must  include  a  disclosure  request  regarding  prior  non-responsibility 
determinations in accordance with State Finance Law §139-k in its solicitation of proposals or bid 
documents  or  specifications  or  contract  documents,  as  applicable,  for  procurement  contracts. 
Attachment  3,  Offerer  Disclosure  of  Prior  Non-Responsibility  Determination is  to  be 
completed and submitted with this bid. 
10.2.4.  Offerer’s Certification of Compliance with State Finance Law §139-k(5) 
New York State Finance Law §139-k(5) requires that every Procurement Contract award subject 
to the provisions of State Finance Law §§139-k or 139-j shall contain a certification by the Offerer 
that all information provided to the procuring Government Entity with respect to State Finance Law 
§139-k is complete, true and accurate. Attachment 4, Offerer Certification of Compliance with
State Finance Law §139-k(5) is to be completed and submitted with this bid.0
10.2.5.  Procurement Lobbying Termination 
DTF reserves the right to terminate this Agreement in the event it is found that the certification 
filed  by  the  Offerer/bidder  in  accordance  with  New  York  State  Finance  Law  §139-k  was 
intentionally false or intentionally incomplete. Upon such finding, DTF may exercise its termination 
right by providing written notification to the Offerer/bidder in accordance with the written notification 
terms of this Agreement. 
10.3 NEW YORK STATE VENDOR FILE REGISTRATION 
Prior to being awarded an Agreement pursuant to this RFQ, the Bidder(s) must be registered in the New 
York State Vendor File (Vendor File) administered by the Office of the State Comptroller (OSC). This is a 
central registry for all vendors who do business with New York State Agencies and the registration must 
be initiated by a State Agency. Following the initial registration, a unique New York State ten-digit vendor 
identification number (Vendor ID) will be assigned to your company and Vendor IDs will be assigned to 
each of your authorized subcontractors (if any) for usage on all future transactions with New York State. 
Additionally,  the  Vendor  File  enables  vendors  to  use  the  Vendor  Self-Service  application  to  manage 
certain vendor information in one central location for all transactions related to the State of New York. 
If the Bidder is already registered in the Vendor File, the Bidder must enter its ten-digit Vendor ID number 
on the first page of this RFQ. 


---PAGE_11---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 11 
10. ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
If the Bidder is not currently registered in the Vendor File, the Bidder must request assignment of a Vendor 
ID number from DTF. Complete the OSC Substitute W-9 Form (available at 
http://www.osc.state.ny.us/vendors/forms/ac3237s_fe.pdf)  and  submit  the  form  to  DTF  preferably  in 
advance of bidding. Please send this document to the Designated Contacts in the solicitation. DTF will 
initiate the vendor registration process for all Bidders. Once the process is initiated, registrants will receive 
an email identifying their unique ten-digit Vendor ID and instructions on how to enroll in the online Vendor 
Self-Service  application.  For  more  information  on  the  Vendor  File  please  visit  the  following  web  site: 
http://www.osc.state.ny.us/vendor_management/ 
10.4 RESERVED RIGHTS 
The Department of Taxation and Finance reserves the right to exercise the following: 
10.4.1. Change any of the scheduled dates herein. 
10.4.2. Prior to the bid opening, amend RFQ specifications after their release to correct 
errors or oversights, or to supply additional information as it becomes available 
and so notify all Bidders. 
10.4.3. Withdraw the RFQ, at its sole discretion. 
10.4.4. Eliminate  a  mandatory  requirement  when  all  Bidders  cannot  meet  such 
requirement. 
10.4.5. Evaluate, accept and/or reject any and all proposals, in whole or in part, and to 
waive  technicalities,  irregularities,  and  omissions  if,  in  the  Department’s 
judgment,  the  best  interests  of  the  Department  will  be  served.    In  the  event 
compliant bids are not received, the Department reserves the right to consider 
late or non-conforming bids as offers. 
10.4.6. Require the Bidder to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Department, any 
information presented as a part of their proposal. 
10.4.7. Determine a tie breaking mechanism for award, to be set prior bid opening, to 
serve the best interests of the State.  
10.4.8. Disqualify  any  Bidder  whose  conduct  and/or  proposal  fails to  conform  to  the 
requirements of the RFQ. 
10.4.9. Prior  to  the  bid  opening,  direct  Bidders  to  submit  proposal  modifications 
addressing subsequent RFQ Amendments.   
10.4.10. Require clarification at any time during the procurement process and/or require 
correction of arithmetic or other apparent errors for the purpose of assuring a 
full and complete understanding of an offerer’s proposal and/or to determine an 
offerer’s compliance with the requirements of the solicitation. 
10.4.11. Use proposal information obtained through the Department’s investigation of a 
Bidder’s  qualifications,  experience,  ability  or  financial  standing,  and  any 


---PAGE_12---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Page 12 
10. ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
material or information submitted by the Bidder in response to the Department’s 
request for clarifying information, in the course of evaluation and selection under 
this RFQ. 
10.4.12. Negotiate with the successful Bidder within the scope of the RFQ to serve the 
best interests of the State. 
10.4.13. Conduct negotiations with the next lowest cost responsible Bidder should the 
Department  be  unsuccessful  in  negotiating  an  Agreement  with  the  selected 
Bidder. 
10.4.14. Utilize any and all ideas submitted in the proposals received. 
10.4.15. Make an award under the RFQ, in whole or in part. 
10.4.16.  Seek clarifications and revisions of proposals.  
(Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank)


---PAGE_13---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 13 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A - Standard Clauses For NYS Contracts 
Appendix B - Current Specifications 


---PAGE_14---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 14 
Appendix A – Standard Clauses For NYS Contracts 
The parties to the attached contract, license, lease, amendment or other agreement of any kind 
(hereinafter, "the contract" or "this contract") agree to be bound by the following clauses which 
are hereby made a part of the contract (the word "Contractor" herein refers to any party other than 
the State, whether a contractor, licenser, licensee, lessor, lessee or any other party): 
1. EXECUTORY CLAUSE.  In accordance with Section 41 of the State Finance Law, the State 
shall have no liability under this contract to the Contractor or to anyone else beyond funds appro-
priated and available for this contract. 
2. NON-ASSIGNMENT CLAUSE.  In accordance with Section 138 of the State Finance Law, this 
contract  may  not  be  assigned  by  the  Contractor  or  its  right,  title  or  interest  therein  assigned, 
transferred,  conveyed,  sublet  or  otherwise  disposed  of  without  the  State’s  previous  written 
consent, and attempts to do so are null and void.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, such prior written 
consent of an assignment of a contract let pursuant to Article XI of the State Finance Law may be 
waived  at  the  discretion  of  the  contracting  agency  and  with  the  concurrence  of  the  State 
Comptroller where the original contract was subject to the State Comptroller’s approval, where 
the assignment is due to a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Contractor’s business 
entity or enterprise. The State retains its right to approve an assignment and to require that any 
Contractor  demonstrate  its  responsibility  to  do  business  with  the  State.    The  Contractor  may, 
however, assign its right to receive payments without the State’s prior written consent unless this 
contract concerns Certificates of Participation pursuant to Article 5-A of the State Finance Law. 
3. COMPTROLLER'S APPROVAL.  In accordance with Section 112 of the State Finance Law 
(or,  if  this  contract  is  with  the  State  University  or  City  University  of  New  York,  Section  355  or 
Section 6218 of the Education Law), if this contract exceeds $50,000 (or the minimum thresholds 
agreed to by the Office of the State Comptroller for certain S.U.N.Y. and C.U.N.Y. contracts), or 
if  this  is  an  amendment  for  any  amount  to  a  contract  which,  as  so  amended,  exceeds said 
statutory  amount,  or  if,  by  this  contract,  the  State  agrees  to  give  something  other  than  money 
when the value or reasonably estimated value of such consideration exceeds $10,000, it shall not 
be valid, effective or binding upon the State until it has been approved by the State Comptroller 
and filed in his office.  Comptroller's approval of contracts let by the Office of General Services is 
required when such contracts exceed $85,000 (State Finance Law Section 163.6-a). However, 
such  pre-approval  shall not  be  required  for  any  contract  established  as  a  centralized  contract 
through the Office of General Services or for a purchase order or other transaction issued under 
such centralized contract. 
4. WORKERS'  COMPENSATION  BENEFITS.  In  accordance  with  Section  142  of  the  State 
Finance  Law,  this  contract shall  be  void  and  of  no force  and  effect  unless  the  Contractor  shall 
provide and maintain coverage during the life of this contract for the benefit of such employees 
as are required to be covered by the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Law. 


---PAGE_15---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 15 
5. NON-DISCRIMINATION  REQUIREMENTS.  To  the  extent  required  by  Article  15  of  the 
Executive Law (also known as the Human Rights Law) and all other State and Federal statutory 
and constitutional non-discrimination provisions, the Contractor will not discriminate against any 
employee  or  applicant  for  employment  because  of  race,  creed,  color,  sex  (including  gender 
identity  or  expression),  national  origin,  sexual  orientation,  military  status,  age,  disability, 
predisposing   genetic   characteristics,   marital   status   or   domestic   violence   victim   status.  
Furthermore,  in  accordance  with  Section  220-e  of  the  Labor  Law,  if  this  is  a  contract  for  the 
construction, alteration or repair of any public building or public work or for the manufacture, sale 
or  distribution  of  materials,  equipment  or  supplies,  and  to  the  extent  that  this  contract  shall  be 
performed within the State of New York, Contractor agrees that neither it nor its subcontractors 
shall, by reason of race, creed, color, disability, sex, or national origin:  (a) discriminate in hiring 
against  any  New  York  State  citizen  who  is  qualified  and  available  to  perform  the  work;  or  (b) 
discriminate  against  or  intimidate  any  employee  hired  for  the  performance  of  work  under  this 
contract.  If this is a building service contract as defined in Section 230 of the Labor Law, then, in 
accordance with Section 239 thereof, Contractor agrees that neither it nor its subcontractors shall 
by reason of race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex or disability:  (a) discriminate in hiring 
against  any  New  York  State  citizen  who  is  qualified  and  available  to  perform  the  work;  or  (b) 
discriminate  against  or  intimidate  any  employee  hired  for  the  performance  of  work  under  this 
contract.  Contractor is subject to fines of $50.00 per person per day for any violation of Section 
220-e or Section 239 as well as possible termination of this contract and forfeiture of all moneys 
due hereunder for a second or subsequent violation. 
6. WAGE AND HOURS PROVISIONS.  If this is a public work contract covered by Article 8 of the 
Labor  Law  or  a  building  service  contract  covered  by  Article  9  thereof,  neither  Contractor's 
employees nor the employees of its subcontractors may be required or permitted to work more 
than  the  number  of  hours  or  days  stated  in  said  statutes,  except  as  otherwise  provided  in  the 
Labor  Law  and  as  set  forth  in  prevailing  wage  and  supplement  schedules  issued  by  the  State 
Labor Department.  Furthermore, Contractor and its subcontractors must pay at least the prevail-
ing  wage rate  and  pay  or  provide  the  prevailing  supplements,  including  the  premium  rates  for 
overtime pay, as determined by the State Labor Department in accordance with the Labor Law.  
Additionally, effective April 28, 2008, if this is a public work contract covered by Article 8 of the 
Labor  Law,  the  Contractor  understands  and  agrees  that  the  filing  of  payrolls  in  a  manner 
consistent with Subdivision 3-a of Section 220 of the Labor Law shall be a condition precedent to 
payment by the State of any State approved sums due and owing for work done upon the project. 
7. NON-COLLUSIVE BIDDING CERTIFICATION.  In accordance with Section 139-d of the State 
Finance Law, if this contract was awarded based upon the submission of bids, Contractor affirms, 
under penalty of perjury, that its bid was arrived at independently and without collusion aimed at 
restricting competition.  Contractor further affirms that, at the time Contractor submitted its bid, an 
authorized and responsible person executed and delivered to the State a non-collusive bidding 
certification on Contractor's behalf. 
8. INTERNATIONAL BOYCOTT PROHIBITION.  In accordance with Section 220-f of the Labor 
Law and Section 139-h of the State Finance Law, if this contract exceeds $5,000, the Contractor 


---PAGE_16---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 16 
agrees, as a material condition of the contract, that neither the Contractor nor any substantially 
owned  or  affiliated  person,  firm,  partnership  or  corporation  has  participated,  is  participating,  or 
shall participate in an international boycott in violation of the federal Export Administration Act of 
1979 (50 USC App. Sections 2401 et seq.) or regulations thereunder.  If such Contractor, or any 
of the aforesaid affiliates of Contractor, is convicted or is otherwise found to have violated said 
laws or regulations upon the final determination of the United States Commerce Department or 
any other appropriate agency of the United States subsequent to the contract's execution, such 
contract, amendment or modification thereto shall be rendered forfeit and void.  The Contractor 
shall so notify the State Comptroller within five (5) business days of such conviction, determination 
or disposition of appeal (2NYCRR 105.4). 
9. SET-OFF RIGHTS.  The State shall have all of its common law, equitable and statutory rights 
of set-off.  These rights shall include, but not be limited to, the State's option to withhold for the 
purposes of set-off any moneys due to the Contractor under this contract up to any amounts due 
and owing to the State with regard to this contract, any other contract with any State department 
or agency, including any contract for a term commencing prior to the term of this contract, plus 
any  amounts  due  and  owing  to  the  State for  any  other  reason  including,  without  limitation,  tax 
delinquencies, fee delinquencies or monetary penalties relative thereto.  The State shall exercise 
its set-off rights in accordance with normal State practices including, in cases of set-off pursuant 
to  an  audit,  the finalization  of  such  audit  by  the State  agency,  its  representatives,  or the  State 
Comptroller. 
10. RECORDS.  The  Contractor  shall  establish  and  maintain  complete  and  accurate  books, 
records,  documents,  accounts  and  other  evidence  directly  pertinent  to  performance  under  this 
contract (hereinafter, collectively, "the Records").  The Records must be kept for the balance of 
the calendar year in which they were made and for six (6) additional years thereafter.  The State 
Comptroller,  the  Attorney  General  and  any  other  person  or  entity  authorized  to  conduct  an 
examination, as well as the agency or agencies involved in this contract, shall have access to the 
Records during normal business hours at an office of the Contractor within the State of New York 
or, if no such office is available, at a mutually agreeable and reasonable venue within the State, 
for the term specified above for the purposes of inspection, auditing and copying.  The State shall 
take reasonable steps to protect from public disclosure any of the Records which are exempt from 
disclosure  under  Section  87  of  the  Public  Officers  Law  (the  "Statute")  provided  that:    (i)  the 
Contractor shall timely inform an appropriate State official, in writing, that said records should not 
be  disclosed;  and  (ii)  said  records  shall  be  sufficiently  identified;  and  (iii)  designation  of  said 
records as exempt under the Statute is reasonable.  Nothing contained herein shall diminish, or 
in any way adversely affect, the State's right to discovery in any pending or future litigation. 
11. IDENTIFYING INFORMATION AND PRIVACY NOTIFICATION.  (a) Identification Number(s).  
Every invoice or New York State Claim for Payment submitted to a New York State agency by a 
payee, for payment for the sale of goods or services or for transactions (e.g., leases, easements, 
licenses, etc.) related to real or personal property must include the payee's identification number.  
The number is any or all of the following: (i) the payee’s Federal employer identification number, 
(ii) the payee’s Federal social security number, and/or (iii) the payee’s Vendor Identification 


---PAGE_17---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 17 
Number assigned by the Statewide Financial System.  Failure to include such number or numbers 
may delay payment. Where the payee does not have such number or numbers, the payee, on its 
invoice or Claim for Payment, must give the reason or reasons why the payee does not have such 
number or numbers. 
(b) Privacy Notification.  (1)  The authority to request the above personal information from a seller 
of goods or services or a lessor of real or personal property, and the authority to maintain such 
information, is found in Section 5 of the State Tax Law.  Disclosure of this information by the seller 
or lessor to the State is mandatory. The principal purpose for which the information is collected is 
to enable the State to identify individuals,  businesses  and others who have been delinquent in 
filing  tax  returns  or  may  have  understated  their  tax  liabilities  and  to  generally  identify  persons 
affected  by  the  taxes  administered  by  the  Commissioner  of  Taxation  and  Finance.    The 
information will be used for tax administration purposes and for any other purpose authorized by 
law. (2) The personal information is requested by the purchasing unit of the agency contracting 
to purchase the goods or services or lease the real or personal property covered by this contract 
or  lease.  The  information  is  maintained in  the  Statewide  Financial  System  by  the  Vendor 
Management Unit within the Bureau of State Expenditures, Office of the State Comptroller, 110 
State Street, Albany, New York 12236. 
12. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR MINORITIES AND WOMEN.  In accordance 
with  Section  312  of  the  Executive  Law  and  5  NYCRR  143,  if  this  contract  is:    (i)  a  written 
agreement  or  purchase  order  instrument,  providing  for  a  total  expenditure  in  excess  of 
$25,000.00, whereby a contracting agency is committed to expend or does expend funds in return 
for  labor,  services,  supplies,  equipment,  materials  or  any  combination  of  the  foregoing,  to  be 
performed for, or rendered or furnished to the contracting agency; or (ii) a written agreement in 
excess  of  $100,000.00 whereby  a  contracting  agency  is  committed  to  expend  or  does  expend 
funds for the acquisition, construction, demolition, replacement, major repair or renovation of real 
property  and  improvements  thereon;  or  (iii)  a  written  agreement  in  excess  of  $100,000.00 
whereby the owner of a State assisted housing project is committed to expend or does expend 
funds for the acquisition, construction, demolition, replacement, major repair or renovation of real 
property and improvements thereon for such project, then the following shall apply and by signing 
this agreement the Contractor certifies and affirms that it is Contractor’s equal employment 
opportunity policy that: 
(a)  The Contractor will not discriminate against employees or applicants for employment because 
of  race,  creed,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  age,  disability  or  marital  status,  shall  make  and 
document its conscientious and active efforts to employ and utilize minority group members and 
women in its work force on State contracts and will undertake or continue existing programs of 
affirmative  action  to  ensure  that  minority  group  members  and  women  are  afforded  equal 
employment  opportunities  without  discrimination.    Affirmative  action  shall  mean  recruitment, 
employment,  job  assignment,  promotion,  upgradings,  demotion,  transfer,  layoff,  or  termination 
and rates of pay or other forms of compensation; 


---PAGE_18---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 18 
(b)    at  the  request  of  the  contracting  agency,  the  Contractor  shall  request  each  employment 
agency,  labor  union,  or  authorized  representative  of  workers  with  which  it  has  a  collective 
bargaining  or  other  agreement  or  understanding,  to  furnish  a  written  statement  that  such 
employment  agency,  labor  union  or  representative  will  not  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  race, 
creed,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  age,  disability  or marital  status  and  that such  union  or 
representative  will  affirmatively  cooperate  in  the  implementation  of  the  Contractor's  obligations 
herein; and  
(c)    the  Contractor  shall  state,  in  all  solicitations  or  advertisements  for  employees,  that,  in  the 
performance  of  the  State  contract,  all  qualified  applicants  will  be  afforded  equal  employment 
opportunities  without  discrimination  because  of  race,  creed,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  age, 
disability or marital status. 
Contractor  will  include  the  provisions  of  "a",  "b",  and  "c"  above,  in  every  subcontract  over 
$25,000.00  for  the  construction,  demolition,  replacement,  major  repair,  renovation,  planning  or 
design of real property and improvements thereon (the "Work") except where the Work is for the 
beneficial  use  of  the  Contractor.    Section  312  does  not  apply  to:    (i)  work,  goods  or  services 
unrelated to this contract; or (ii) employment outside New York State.  The State shall consider 
compliance by a contractor or subcontractor with the requirements of any federal law concerning 
equal  employment  opportunity  which  effectuates  the  purpose  of  this  section.    The  contracting 
agency  shall  determine  whether  the  imposition  of  the  requirements  of  the  provisions  hereof 
duplicate  or  conflict  with  any  such  federal  law  and  if  such  duplication  or  conflict  exists,  the 
contracting agency shall waive the applicability of Section 312 to the extent of such duplication or 
conflict.  Contractor will comply with all duly promulgated and lawful rules and regulations of the 
Department   of   Economic  Development’s    Division   of   Minority   and   Women's   Business 
Development pertaining hereto. 
13. CONFLICTING TERMS.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of the contract (including 
any and all attachments thereto and amendments thereof) and the terms of this Appendix A, the 
terms of this Appendix A shall control. 
14. GOVERNING LAW.  This contract shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York 
except where the Federal supremacy clause requires otherwise. 
15. LATE PAYMENT.  Timeliness of payment and any interest to be paid to Contractor for late 
payment shall be governed by Article 11-A of the State Finance Law to the extent required by law. 
16. NO ARBITRATION.  Disputes involving this contract, including the breach or alleged breach 
thereof,  may  not  be  submitted  to  binding  arbitration  (except  where  statutorily  authorized),  but 
must, instead, be heard in a court of competent jurisdiction of the State of New York. 
17. SERVICE OF PROCESS.  In addition to the methods of service allowed by the State Civil 
Practice  Law  &  Rules  ("CPLR"),  Contractor  hereby  consents  to  service  of  process  upon  it  by 
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.  Service hereunder shall be complete upon 
Contractor's actual receipt of process or upon the State's receipt of the return thereof by the United 


---PAGE_19---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 19 
States Postal Service as refused or undeliverable.  Contractor must promptly notify the State, in 
writing, of each and every change of address to which service of process can be made.  Service 
by the State to the last known address shall be sufficient.  Contractor will have thirty (30) calendar 
days after service hereunder is complete in which to respond. 
18. PROHIBITION ON PURCHASE OF TROPICAL HARDWOODS.  The Contractor certifies and 
warrants that all wood products to be used under this contract award will be in accordance with, 
but not limited to, the specifications and provisions of Section 165 of the State Finance Law, (Use 
of  Tropical  Hardwoods)  which  prohibits  purchase  and  use  of  tropical hardwoods,  unless 
specifically exempted, by the State or any governmental agency or political subdivision or public 
benefit corporation. Qualification for an exemption under this law will be the responsibility of the 
contractor to establish to meet with the approval of the State. 
In  addition,  when  any  portion  of  this  contract  involving  the  use  of  woods,  whether  supply  or 
installation, is to be performed by any subcontractor, the prime Contractor will indicate and certify 
in the submitted bid proposal that the subcontractor has been informed and is in compliance with 
specifications  and  provisions  regarding  use  of  tropical  hardwoods  as  detailed  in  §165  State 
Finance Law. Any such use must meet with the approval of the State; otherwise, the bid may not 
be considered responsive. Under bidder certifications, proof of qualification for exemption will be 
the responsibility of the Contractor to meet with the approval of the State. 
19. MACBRIDE  FAIR  EMPLOYMENT  PRINCIPLES.  In  accordance  with  the  MacBride  Fair 
Employment Principles (Chapter 807 of the Laws of 1992), the Contractor hereby stipulates that 
the Contractor either (a) has no business operations in Northern Ireland, or (b) shall take lawful 
steps in good faith to conduct any business operations in Northern Ireland in accordance with the 
MacBride Fair Employment Principles (as described in Section 165 of the New York State Finance 
Law), and shall permit independent monitoring of compliance with such principles. 
20. OMNIBUS PROCUREMENT ACT OF 1992.  It is the policy of New York State to maximize 
opportunities  for  the  participation  of  New  York  State  business  enterprises,  inclupublic  ading 
minority and women-owned business enterprises as bidders, subcontractors and suppliers on its 
procurement contracts. 
Information on the availability of New York State subcontractors and suppliers is available from: 
NYS Department of Economic Development 
Division for Small Business 
Albany, New York  12245 
Telephone:  518-292-5100 
Fax:  518-292-5884 
email: opa@esd.ny.gov 
A directory of certified minority and women-owned business enterprises is available from: 
NYS Department of Economic Development 


---PAGE_20---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 20 
Division of Minority and Women's Business Development 
633 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
212-803-2414 
email: mwbecertification@esd.ny.gov 
https://ny.newnycontracts.com/FrontEnd/VendorSearchPublic.asp 
The Omnibus Procurement Act of 1992 requires that by signing this bid proposal or contract, as 
applicable, Contractors certify that whenever the total bid amount is greater than $1 million: 
(a)  The Contractor has made reasonable efforts to encourage the participation of New York State 
Business  Enterprises  as  suppliers  and  subcontractors,  including  certified  minority  and  women-
owned business enterprises, on this project, and has retained the documentation of these efforts 
to be provided upon request to the State; 
(b) The Contractor has complied with the Federal Equal Opportunity Act of 1972 (P.L. 92-261), 
as amended;  
(c) The Contractor agrees to make reasonable efforts to provide notification to New York State 
residents of employment opportunities on this project through listing any such positions with the 
Job Service Division of the New York State Department of Labor, or providing such notification in 
such manner as is consistent with existing collective bargaining contracts or agreements.  The 
Contractor agrees to document these efforts and to provide said documentation to the State upon 
request; and  
(d)  The  Contractor  acknowledges  notice  that  the  State  may  seek  to  obtain  offset  credits  from 
foreign countries as a result of this contract and agrees to cooperate with the State in these efforts. 
21. RECIPROCITY  AND  SANCTIONS  PROVISIONS.   Bidders  are  hereby  notified  that  if  their 
principal place of business is located in a country, nation, province, state or political subdivision 
that penalizes New York State vendors, and if the goods or services they offer will be substantially 
produced or performed outside New York State, the Omnibus Procurement Act 1994 and 2000 
amendments (Chapter 684 and Chapter 383, respectively) require that they be denied contracts 
which  they  would  otherwise  obtain.    NOTE:    As of  May  15,  2002,  the  list  of  discriminatory 
jurisdictions subject to this provision includes the states of South Carolina, Alaska, West Virginia, 
Wyoming,  Louisiana  and  Hawaii.    Contact  NYS  Department  of  Economic  Development  for a 
current list of jurisdictions subject to this provision. 
22. COMPLIANCE  WITH  NEW  YORK  STATE  INFORMATION  SECURITY  BREACH  AND 
NOTIFICATION  ACT.   Contractor  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  New  York  State 
Information Security Breach and Notification Act (General Business Law Section 899-aa; State 
Technology Law Section 208).   
23. COMPLIANCE WITH CONSULTANT DISCLOSURE LAW.  If this is a contract for consulting 
services,  defined  for  purposes  of  this  requirement  to  include  analysis,  evaluation,  research, 


---PAGE_21---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 21 
training,  data  processing,  computer  programming,  engineering,  environmental,  health,  and 
mental  health  services,  accounting,  auditing,  paralegal,  legal  or  similar  services,  then,  in 
accordance with Section 163 (4-g) of the State Finance Law (as amended by Chapter 10 of the 
Laws of 2006), the Contractor shall timely, accurately and properly comply with the requirement 
to submit an annual employment report for the contract to the agency that awarded the contract, 
the Department of Civil Service and the State Comptroller.   
24. PROCUREMENT LOBBYING.  To the extent this agreement is a "procurement contract" as 
defined by State Finance Law Sections 139-j and 139-k, by signing this agreement the contractor 
certifies  and  affirms  that  all  disclosures  made  in  accordance  with  State  Finance  Law  Sections 
139-j and 139-k are complete, true and accurate.  In the event such certification is found to be 
intentionally false or intentionally incomplete, the State may terminate the agreement by providing 
written notification to the Contractor in accordance with the terms of the agreement.   
25. CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION TO COLLECT SALES AND COMPENSATING USE 
TAX BY CERTAIN STATE CONTRACTORS, AFFILIATES AND SUBCONTRACTORS.  To the 
extent this agreement is a contract as defined by Tax Law Section 5-a, if the contractor fails to 
make the certification required by Tax Law Section 5-a or if during the term of the contract, the 
Department of Taxation and Finance or the covered agency, as defined by Tax Law 5-a, discovers 
that  the  certification,  made  under  penalty  of  perjury,  is  false,  then  such  failure  to  file  or  false 
certification shall be a material breach of this contract and this contract may be terminated, by 
providing written notification to the Contractor in accordance with the terms of the agreement, if 
the covered agency determines that such action is in the best interest of the State. 
26. IRAN   DIVESTMENT   ACT.  By   entering  into   this   Agreement,   Contractor   certifies in 
accordance with State Finance Law §165-a that it is not on the “Entities Determined to be Non-
Responsive  Bidders/Offerers  pursuant  to  the  New  York  State  Iran  Divestment  Act  of  2012” 
(“Prohibited Entities List”) posted at: http://www.ogs.ny.gov/about/regs/docs/ListofEntities.pdf 
Contractor further certifies that it will not utilize on this Contract any subcontractor that is identified 
on  the  Prohibited  Entities  List.    Contractor  agrees  that  should  it  seek  to  renew  or  extend  this 
Contract, it must provide the same certification at the time the Contract is renewed or extended.  
Contractor also agrees that any proposed Assignee of this Contract will be required to certify that 
it  is  not  on  the  Prohibited  Entities  List  before  the  contract  assignment  will  be  approved  by  the 
State. 
During the term of the Contract, should the state agency receive information that a person (as 
defined  in  State  Finance  Law  §165-a)  is  in  violation  of  the  above-referenced  certifications,  the 
state agency will review such information and offer the person an opportunity to respond.  If the 
person fails to demonstrate that it has ceased its engagement in the investment activity which is 
in violation of the Act within 90 days after the determination of such violation, then the state agency 
shall take such action as may be appropriate and provided for by law, rule, or contract, including, 
but not limited to, imposing sanctions, seeking compliance, recovering damages, or declaring the 
Contractor in default. 


---PAGE_22---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 22 
The state agency reserves the right to reject any bid, request for assignment, renewal or extension 
for an entity that appears on the Prohibited Entities List prior to the award, assignment, renewal 
or extension of a contract, and to pursue a responsibility review with respect to any entity that is 
awarded a contract and appears on the Prohibited Entities list after contract award.   
 
 
 
 
January 2014 
 


---PAGE_23---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 23 
Appendix B – Current Specifications 
GEOTAB GO7 Specifications  
The following information was taken from the GEOTAB GO7 Support Document available at 
the following link: https://www.geotab.com/documentation/go7-support-document/ 
As stated in the RFQ (Section 5, Requirements), these specifications represent the technical 
aspects  of  the service  currently  in  use  by  the  Department.  DTF  does  not  guarantee  that  all 
information listed below is applicable to this RFQ.  
Technical Specifications and Features 
Interfaces Engine Management 
Legacy OBD (SAE J1850 PWM/VPW, ISO 9141-2, and ISO 14230 
(KWP2000)) 
Single Wire CAN (GM 33.3 kbps, Fiat/Dodge 50 kbps) 
ISO 15765 CAN (including WWH-OBD, GMLAN, VW TP2.0) @ 
125/250/500 kbps 
Medium Speed CAN @ 125/250/500 kbps 
2- or 3-wire install support (for older vehicles/asset tracking) 
Input/Output 
Buzzer 
LEDs — Ignition, GPS, Cellular 
IOX (more details below) 
Internal GPS/Cellular antennas 
Cellular GO7 3G (availability varying on certification) 
Americas 
HSPA/UMTS: Bands II / V 
GSM/GPRS: 850/1900 MHz 
Europe/Asia 
HSPA/UMTS: Bands I / VIII 
GSM/GPRS: 900/1800 MHz 
Global (available in select regions) 
HSPA/UMTS: Bands I / II / IV / V / VI / VIII 
GSM/GPRS: 850/900/1800/1900 MHz 
GO7 2G Discontinued 
GSM/GPRS: 850/900/1800/1900 MHz 
GO7 CDMA Discontinued 
CDMA 1XRTT: 800/1900 MHz 


---PAGE_24---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 24 
GPS Receiver 50-channel engine 
Under 1 second Time-To-First Fix for hot and aided starts 
Hybrid GPS/SBAS engine (WAAS, EGNOS, MSAS) 
3GPP compliant 
A-GPS: Differential Almanac 
Accuracy: ~2.5 m 
I/O 
Expandability 
Support (IOX) 
Currently supports a combination of up to 5 of the following: 
Driver ID 
Hours of Service (HOS) 
Garmin 
Iridium Satellite 
AUX — 4 per IOX (Digital or Analog) 
Serial Port and Additional CAN for third-party device integration 
Driver Feedback via external Buzzer and GOTALK 
Substance Spreader 
Relay control 
Alert 
Accelerometer 3-axis auto-calibrating accelerometer. Full scale (±2g, ±4g, ±8g & ±16g), 
capable of measuring accelerations with an output data rate of 100 Hz to 
1250 Hz. 
Environmental 
and EMC 
Operating Temperature 
−40 to +85 °C 
SAE J1455 
Thermal Shock (Section 4.1.3.2) 
Mechanical Vibration (Section 4.10) 
Operational Shock 
Load Dump, Inductive Switching, Burst Transients, Starter Motor 
Engagement 
(Section 4.13.2.2.1) 
Coupled Transients (Section 4.13.2.2.2) 
Electrostatic Discharge Handling, operational and non-operational 
(Section 4.13.2.2.3) 
Radiated Immunity 
Radiated and Conducted Emissions, Performance class 1 
Mechanical Weight: 70 g (0.15 lb) 


---PAGE_25---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Appendices | Page 25 
Dimensions: 75 mm L × 50 mm W × 23 mm H 
Housing: Flame retardant black ABS 
Electrical Voltage 
12 V and 24 V systems supported 
Current (at 12 V) 
Operating Mode: 60–300 mA 
Operating mode + IOX: Up to 2 A 
Sleep mode: 2.5 mA 
Resettable overcurrent protection to IOX 
Compliance Standards: FCC, IC, PTCRB, CE, E-mark, WEEE, REACH, RoHS, RCM 
Carriers: Verizon, Telus, Telefónica, Rogers, AT&T, Bell, TMO, Sprint, 
Telenor 
Over-the-Air 
(OTA) Support 
Firmware Updates: For maintenance, new features, and custom 
applications 
Parameters: For turning additional features on/off 
Almanac/Ephemeris Data: For quicker GPS latch 
In-cab Buzzer Decibel Output: >80 dBA at 10 cm 
Driver Feedback: Harsh braking, harsh acceleration, harsh corners, over-
revving, excessive idling and speeding, engine-based seatbelt violations 
(when available), and custom rules (with Driver Feedback enabled) 
Test Mode: Diagnostic beeps for validating GPS and wireless connection 
Voltage 
Recording 
Curve-based voltage logging to detect weak batteries, failing alternators, 
and failing starters. 
32-Mb Non-
volatile Flash 
Memory 
Main Data Memory: Up to 80,000 logs in offline mode (out of coverage) 
Accident Data Memory: Buffer records over 100 minutes of second-by-
second data 
(6,000 logs). Last 72 records (1.2 minutes) are sent instantly on 
accelerometer-triggered accident-level events 
Recording 
Parameters 
Patented curve-based GPS/voltage/accelerometer/engine data logging 
algorithm for fewer, more accurate data points. 
Intelligent 
Ignition 
Non-engine-based ignition detect on voltage and movement, allowing for 
3-wire installation. Ideal for older vehicles with no engine information and 
covert installation for asset recovery. 


---PAGE_26---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 26 
ATTACHMENTS 
 
 
Attachment 1 - Quote Response Form 
Attachment 2 - Offerer Understanding of, and Compliance with, 
Procurement Lobbying Guidelines 
Attachment 3 - Offerer Disclosure of Prior Non-Responsibility 
Determinations 
Attachment 4 - Offerer’s Certification of Compliance with State Finance 
Law 139-k (5) 
   
   
   
 


---PAGE_27---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 27 
Attachment 1 – Quote Response Form 
 
The  Department  reserves  the  right  to  seek  clarifications  and  ask  questions  based  on  the 
information provided on this form. Failure to answer all clarifications or questions may delay the 
evaluation   of   your   bid   and   may   result   in   a   determination   of   non-responsiveness   and 
disqualification of the bid. Do not modify this form. Any alterations of the Quote Response Form 
may result in a determination of non-responsiveness and disqualification of the bid. 
 
PART A  
HARDWARE AND INSTALLATION 
Bidder Name       
1. HARDWARE 
i.  Item Name        
ii.  Manufacturer       
iii.  Brand Name       
iv.  One-Time Cost $                         per device 
2. INSTALLATION 
i.  Total Installation Cost 
(Including all labor, 
installation equipment, 
and travel costs) 
a. Capital Region Office – Albany 
Approximately 42 Devices $                 per device 
b. Long Island Regional Office 
Approximately 32 Devices $                 per device 
c. Batavia District Office 
Approximately 19 Devices $                 per device 
 
 
 
 
 


---PAGE_28---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 28 
PART B 
SOFTWARE 
Bidder Name       
1. SOFTWARE 
i.  Item        
ii.  Manufacturer       
iii.  Brand Name       
iv.  Initial Cost of Software (if applicable) $                       per device 
v.  
Ongoing Cost of Software $                         per device 
Please check one: 
☐  
Monthly 
☐ 
Annual 
☐ 
One-Time 
 
PART C 
BIDDER CERTIFICATION 
1. CERTIFICATION 
The Bidder certifies the following: 
i. The Bidder has read the RFQ in its entirety and understands and agrees to abide by 
the requirements, terms, and conditions contained in the RFQ. 
ii. The Bidder is an original manufacturer or authorized reseller of the GPS devices and 
associated software and is compliant with all applicable laws and regulations related 
to providing these services. 
Firm Name:       
Authorized Signature:  
Printed Name:       
Title:       
Date of Bid Submission:       


---PAGE_29---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 29 
Attachment 2 – Offerer Understanding of, and Compliance with, 
Procurement Lobbying Guidelines 
New  York  State  Finance Law  §139-j(6)(b)  requires  the  DTF  seek  written  affirmation  from  all 
Offerers as to the Offerer’s understanding of, and agreement to comply with, the DTF procedures 
relating to permissible contacts during a Government Procurement pursuant to subdivision three 
of this section. 
 
Procurement Description, Contract or Bid Number:  
 
 
 
 
 
Offerer Name:         
 
Offerer Address:         
  
       
 
Telephone Number:         
 
Email Address:       
 
 
Offerer affirms it has read, understands and agrees to comply with the guidelines of the New York 
State  Department  of  Taxation  and  Finance  relative  to  permissible  contacts  as  required  by  the 
State Finance Law §§139-j(3) and 139-j(6)(b). 
 
By (signature):    
 
Name (please print):       
 
Title (please print):       
 
Date:       
 


---PAGE_30---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 30 
Attachment 3 – Offerer Disclosure of Prior Non-Responsibility 
Determinations 
New  York  State  Finance  Law  §139-k(2)  obligates  a  Governmental  Entity  to  obtain  specific 
information regarding prior non-responsibility determinations with respect to State Finance Law 
§139-j. This information must be collected in addition to the information that is separately obtained 
pursuant to State Finance Law §163(9).  In accordance with State Finance Law §139-k, an Offerer 
must be asked to disclose whether there has been a finding of non-responsibility made within the 
previous four years by any Governmental Entity due to: (a) a violation of State Finance Law §139-
j or (b) the intentional provision of false or incomplete information to a Governmental Entity. The 
terms “Offerer” and “Governmental Entity” are defined in State Finance Law §139-k(1).  State 
Finance Law §139-j sets forth detailed requirements about the restrictions on Contacts during the 
procurement process. A violation of State Finance Law §139-j includes, but is not limited to, an 
impermissible  Contact  during  the  restricted  period  (for  example,  contacting  a  person  or  entity 
other  than  the  designated  contact  person,  when  such  contact  does  not  fall  within  one  of  the 
exemptions). 
As part of its responsibility determination, State Finance Law §139-k(3) mandates consideration 
of whether an Offerer fails to timely disclose accurate or complete information regarding the above 
non-responsibility  determination.  In  accordance  with  law,  no  Procurement  Contract  shall  be 
awarded to any Offerer that fails to timely disclose accurate or complete information under this 
section, unless a finding is made  that the award of the Procurement Contract to the Offerer is 
necessary to protect public property or public health safety, and that the Offerer is the only source 
capable  of  supplying  the  required  Article  of  Procurement  within  the  necessary  timeframe.  See 
State Finance Law §§139-j (10)(b) and 139-k(3).  
A  Governmental  Entity  must  include  a  disclosure  request  regarding  prior  non-responsibility 
determinations in accordance with State Finance Law §139-k in its solicitation of proposals or bid 
documents  or  specifications  or  contract  documents,  as  applicable,  for  Procurement  Contracts. 
The attached form is to be completed and submitted by the individual or entity seeking to enter 
into  a  Procurement  Contract.  It  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Governmental  Entity  conducting  the 
Governmental Procurement. 
 


---PAGE_31---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 31 
Offerer Disclosure of Prior Non-Responsibility Determinations 
Procurement Description, Contract or Bid Number: 
Offerer Name: 
Offerer Address: 
Phone Number: 
Email: 
Name and Title of Person 
Submitting This Form: 
1.Has any New York State agency or authority made a finding of non-
responsibility regarding the Offerer in the last four years?
☐ 
Yes 
☐ 
No 
If yes, please answer the following questions: 
2.Was the basis for the finding of the Offerer’s non-responsibility
due to a violation of State Finance Law §139-j?
☐ 
Yes 
☐ 
No 
3.Was the basis for the finding of the Offerer’s non-responsibility
due   to   the   intentional   provision   of   false   or incomplete
information to a Governmental Entity?
☐ 
Yes 
☐ 
No 
4.If you responded “Yes” to Questions 1, 2 or 3, please provide details regarding the finding
of non-responsibility below:
Government Entity: 
Date of Finding of Non-Responsibility: 
Facts Underlying Finding of Non-Responsibility (Add additional pages as necessary): 


---PAGE_32---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 32 
 
5. Has  any  New  York  State  agency  or  authority  terminated  a 
Procurement  Contract  with  the  Offerer  due  to  the  intentional 
provision of false or incomplete information? 
☐ 
Yes 
☐ 
No 
   
  
6. If you responded “Yes” to the above question, please provide details regarding the 
termination below:  
   Government Entity:         
 
   Date of Finding of Non-Responsibility:       
 
   
Facts Underlying Finding of Non-Responsibility (Add additional pages as 
necessary): 
   
      
    
Offerer certifies that all information provided to the DTF with respect to State Finance Law 
§139-k is complete, true and accurate. 
 
By (Signature):  
Name (Please print):       
Date:       
 


---PAGE_33---
New York State Department of Taxation and Finance 
Request for Quotes 19-326 
GPS Hardware and Software 
 
Request for Quotes 19-326 | Attachments | Page 33 
Attachment 4 – Offerer’s Certification of Compliance with State 
Finance Law 139-k (5) 
New York State Finance Law §139-k(5) requires that every Procurement Contract award subject 
to the provisions of State Finance Law §§139-k or 139-j shall contain a certification by the Offerer 
that  all  information  provided  to  the procuring  Government  Entity  with  respect  to  State  Finance 
Law 139-k is complete, true and accurate. 
 
Offerer Certification 
I  certify  that  all  information  provided  to  the  DTF  with  respect  to  State  Finance  Law  §139-k  is 
complete, true and accurate. 
 By: (signature)    
 
 
 
 Date:               
 
   
   
Procurement Description, Contract or Bid Number:    
      
   
   
Name (Please print):       
   
Title:       
   
Offerer Name:         
   
Offerer Address:       
   
        
   
Telephone Number:       
   
Email Address:       
 
 
 
 
  